No, he didn't visit a certain compound in Saxonwold to titillate his taste buds with the best of oriental tastes.Nor did the Turkish-German take a shot left to a certain shebeen in that vicinity to guzzle gallons of the amber-coloured nectar of the gods (as Ndumiso Ngcobo refers to the refined Scottish waters).In any case, he is not the greatest imbiber of the nectar.Ertugral is captured by his own conscience. A conscience of cowardice.In a moment of a sporting low, he chose to get on his bicycle and pedal for dear life after Orlando Pirates were suffocated 6-1 by SuperSport United. The state of Ertugral's capture by his cowardiceAmid the debris of the calamity in the muddy and soggy Mbombela Stadium, he severed his services as coach of Orlando Pirates live on TV.He proceeded to pen an e-mail of resignation and pressed the send button to club boss Irvin Khoza at 3.38am.A man who joined just in June is gone in a huff in November.At least his stay at the helm of Pirates was longer than a certain minister's weekend special dalliance with the national purse.You would expect better from Ertugral, seeing that he is not some upstart rookie coach.We are dealing here with a seasoned coach who does technical work for Fifa in their tournaments.Someone who's coached in the crazy cathedrals of Turkey and cauldrons of Egypt should be thick-skinned. And Ertugral has always presented himself as a tough cookie.Soaking wet in the rain in Mbombela, he crumbled like a Marie biscuit dunked in hot coffee.The manner of his exit leaves everything in the realm of speculation and open to all manner of interpretations.It was player power. Two Pirates teams played that game. A football team came out for the first half and led 1-0 at the break.A tennis team took the field for the second stanza and lost the set 6-1.Ertugral's response to the defeat leaves a lot to be desired.He is not the first and certainly not the last to get a dirty half dozen.In September, Barcelona inflicted the heaviest European defeat on Celtic. The Scots were at the receiving end when a Lionel Messi hat-trick, a Luis Suarez double and an Andres Iniesta solo strike secured a 7-0 victory.Manchester City gave Manchester United a warm klap, but Alex Ferguson didn't tender his resignation in the wake of that 5-1 thumping. Pirates bounce back in styleInstead, he responded in spectacular fashion when his Red Devils roasted Arsenal 8-2.Arsene Wenger whinged and whined, but didn't take a decision to be released from his duties as the chief Gunner.Whether they had a hand or not in pushing Ertugral to walk the plank, the players must embark on deep reflection on their role in the diabolical defeat. Ertugral was right about one thing: all who partook in that charade of a second-half performance are a disgrace to the institution.Those players didn't display any desire to want to haul themselves back into contention and stop theirs from being a house of destruction.He failed to capture Pirates. He nullified his future employment prospects. Who in their right mind would want to hire a guy who gives up a gig on account of a heavy defeat?Someone once opined that it takes a million years to build a reputation and a fraction of a second to tarnish it beyond recognition. Muhsin has allowed cowardice to capture him.Twitter:@bbkunplugged99