The 1883 eruption of Krakatoa in what is today Indonesia was one of the deadliest volcanic events in recorded history. With an explosion that could be heard up to 4,000km away, the island blew itself to bits, causing tsunamis that rocked ships as far away as here in South Africa, 8,000km distant.About 36,000 people died, their bodies floating in the ocean for months. For the next five years, the fallout darkened the sky and caused chaotic weather patterns. Loving lizards - and other designer petsWhen the first researchers reached what remained of Krakatoa nine months later, the only living thing was a tiny spider.How did it get there?It probably flew.Spiders don't have wings, but they do have silk. When certain spiderlings - young spiders - want to leave home, they climb on to a handy fencepost, emit a long strand of gossamer silk into the wind and allow it to carry them away like a parachute. Spiders "ballooning" in this way have been collected at altitudes of up to 1,500m.And flying isn't the only surprising thing that spiders can do, as I found out when I was a kid, watching a line of ants scurrying busily across a patch of sand."That one isn't an ant; it's an ant-mimicking spider," said a helpful grown-up, pointing to what turned out to be a perfect copy of the ants. Its antennae, on closer inspection, were a pair of front legs, which it was waving around to look like feelers.I was hooked. Where another girl might have had an arachnoleptic fit after walking into a spider web, I carefully picked the creature out of my hair and set it free in the garden, then followed it to see what it might do. Because, boy, do spiders do amazing things.That most basic of spider skills, spinning a web, has to be seen to be believed. If you don't have 90 minutes to spend sitting outside near a light on a warm summer's evening in real life, google "spider spinning web" and take 90 seconds to watch it, speeded up, on YouTube. Watching an actual web in construction is one of the best things you can do on the virtual web.WATCH: A Darwin's bark spider spins a massive web And ordinary old orb webs aren't the only astonishing things spiders do with their silk - which is stronger by weight than steel; scientists have long been trying to make artificial spider silk because it's such awesome stuff.Some spiders spin a type of "diving bell" out of silk, and spend their entire lives under water, breathing the oxygen trapped in the silk bell. Others use a square of woolly silk as a catching net which they hold in their front legs and throw over passing insects.Some males wrap up their sperm in a package of silk and present it like a gift to the females, while many females spin a special kind of silk to wrap their eggs in, to protect them until they hatch.The male of one somewhat paranoid species uses its silk to seal the female's nether regions after he's mated with her, ensuring he's truly her one and only. With the possible exception of some Australian marvels, most spiders would much rather run away than get into a fight with a human It's understandable that spiders freak out some people, but even for arachnophiles it's no fun to put a hand on a huge hairy rain spider in the dark when looking for the light switch.It isn't true that most spiders are dangerously venomous. Even the big spiders we get in South Africa are small, and so are their jaws: most aren't even capable of penetrating human skin.When your mom said, "It's more scared of you than you are of it," she was right.With the possible exception of some Australian marvels, most spiders would much rather run away than get into a fight with a human.Or, as in the case of another Australian sensation, it just uses its invisibility cloak to disappear.The mirror spider has silvery patches on its body that look like a mosaic of reflective glass, and it can use these to mirror its surroundings so that it blends in so beautifully that it all but vanishes.Eat your heart out, Harry Potter.