Last autumn, I drove two hours south of Washington DC and checked into an elegant hotel near Charlottesville, Virginia.Tucked into the Blue Ridge foothills, the hotel, a Georgian-style mansion turned 10-room boutique guesthouse, was straight out of Tuscany. Crystal chandeliers; statues and oil paintings; marble corridors; rose gardens; and acres of vineyards.That evening, I sank into a leather sofa in an oak-panelled library to watch a campaign debate. On the screen, Donald Trump uttered more of his trademark bluster.I was struck by the disconnect between the man on the TV and the setting I was in - the stunning Albemarle Estate at Trump Winery. Mrs Trump a tourism dream?For all his garishness and vulgarity, Trump is a master hotelier. There are 15 Trump hotels on three continents and they are rather good. Actually, they're fantastic.They feature all the finer things in life - Michelin-starred restaurants, great wines, Waterford crystal - and appear to be the epitome of good taste. Which seems at odds with the man himself.His first foray into the business was in 1980, at the age of 34, when his Trump Organisation restored the 1919-built Commodore Hotel on 42nd Street in New York. A modern, glassy tower rose in its stead, today's Grand Hyatt Hotel.Residential buildings, office blocks and shopping malls followed - and all three together in the case of the 58-storey Trump Tower, opened in 1983, where Trump lives in the top-floor triplex.By the mid-'80s, Trump was a star, a playboy real-estate tycoon. Then came a fall. In '88 he borrowed $390-million to buy New York's Plaza Hotel. It was flailing at the time and he spent $40-million restoring it.By the early '90s, he was haemorrhaging cash on the interest. And yet, he was able to negotiate favourable terms to extract himself. In 1995 The Plaza was sold at a $70-million loss, though not before he married his second wife, Marla Maples, in the ballroom.</img>Donald Trump International Hotel built in the old Pennsylvania Ave Post office in Washington, DC. Image: iStockDonald Trump International Hotel built in the old Pennsylvania Ave Post office in Washington, DC. Image: iStockBy 1997, he was back in business, this time with Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower, on the corner of Central Park. Trump was junior partner in a redevelopment largely funded by the building's owners, General Electric.The new, 52-storey glass and steel towerwas the first condominium hotel in the city, a combination of private residences and hotel rooms, where even the hotel rooms - 176 of them - were privately owned.The genius was that Trump set himself up in direct opposition to the gilded opulence of The Pierre, The Plaza and other grand dames. Instead of grandeur he offered modern residential living: a doorman building, a simple lobby, banks of elevators."What he did was unique," says David Landsel, former travel editor of the New York Post . "It was Donald Trump in hotel form - you got to play act at being a wealthy New Yorker. Trump International made you feel you belonged. You paid money to live in a tycoon's apartment. You felt you had moved to Manhattan and made it."It still has that aura today.</img>Trump Hotel Las Vegas is a 64 story luxury hotel, condominium and timeshare near the famous Strip. The exterior windows are gilded with 24-carat gold. Image: iStock Trump Hotel Las Vegas is a 64 story luxury hotel, condominium and timeshare near the famous Strip. The exterior windows are gilded with 24-carat gold. Image: iStockIt was in 2007, with the pending opening of hotels in Chicago, Las Vegas and Hawaii, that his children, Eric, Ivanka and Trump Jr, got involved. To some, this is also part of the brand's success.Says Eric Danziger, CEO of Trump Hotels, "There is no Mr Four Seasons ... There is a Mr Trump. We're a family-run business and ... it's a different level of hospitality."Perhaps the most distinctive Trump Hotel is the newest one. September saw the grand opening of Trump International Hotel Washington, DC, an elegant five-star set in the Romanesque 1899 Old Post Office building at 1100 Pennsylvania Ave.I was surprised to find that, here, the opulent Belle poque furnishings and d cor perfectly match the classic 1899 European-style building. Only the four giant TV screens above the lobby bar seem like overkill.And how have his politics affected business? There are many reports of trouble. The New York Times recently wrote about room cancellations and boycotts. But I suspect what's lost on the roundabouts is gained on the swings. Albemarle in Virginia said bookings had risen by 55% this year.In a debate in the run-up to the election, Trump joked about his new hotel, right next to the White House. "If I don't get there one way, I'm going to get there another."Of course, now he holds both and, whoever he may have offended with his campaign, I suspect his hotels will do just fine.- The Telegraph