Hussain s wife is Nazia Carrim, a former Eskom board member. My wife is a lawyer and I have a few companies. Now I m perceived as a fellow doing business with the Guptas, which is not the case, said Hussain.Hussain and Carrim live in Polokwane; Essa in Johannesburg. Me and Salim, we hardly talk, Hussain said. We meet Salim maybe twice a year at Eid or something. We re not in business together. We re not in cahoots. We don t do business with the state. Carrim said yesterday she had not been interviewed by Madonsela, and had no idea that Essa had an interest in the Oakbay company Tegeta Exploration and Resources. The last time I saw him was two years ago, she said. Eskom strikes back, saying Madonsela is destroying itAsked about the fact that an Eskom decision on a Tegeta coal contract had benefited Essa commercially, she said: It s a coincidence. Eskom board member Mark Pamensky, also named in the report, declined to speak to the Sunday Times. We re going to put everything through Eskom, he said. Madonsela found that Pamensky was associated with Oakbay Resources and Energy, which is 64% owned by Atul Gupta; Shiva Uranium, in which Tegeta has a 20% stake; and Yellow Star Trading 1099, of which Essa is a director.She said in her report that Pamensky was at an Eskom board meeting in April 2015 where a long-standing dispute with Glencore s Optimum mine was discussed.Meanwhile businessman Kuben Moodley, who was also named in Madonsela s report, on Friday denied any conflict of interest.The State of Capture report found that Moodley s company Albatime contributed R10-million to Tegeta s purchase of Optimum.Moodley was an adviser to the minister of mineral resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, while the deal was being put together. At the time Moodley s wife, Viroshini Naidoo, was a member of the Eskom board who attended key meetings.The first meeting was in April 2015 when an agreement with Optimum owners Glencore was referred to Eskom CEO Brian Molefe. The agreement was then cancelled, precipitating a business rescue and sale of the mine to the Guptas.The second meeting was in April this year when the Guptas faced a looming deadline to make a R600-million payment to buy Optimum. Eskom approved R660-million as a pre-payment to Tegeta for future coal deliveries.Moodley denied that this represented a conflict of interest and Albatime has never done any work at Eskom . I have had no dealings with the OCH [Optimum Coal Holdings] transaction, he said. Therefore no conflict can exist. This is contradicted by Madonsela s report, which details how the R10-million was paid into a business account at the Bank of Baroda as one of 32 deposits totalling R2.5-billion that Tegeta used to buy Optimum.