But the most popular guest of honour wasn't even there.Comedian Trevor Noah entertained the crowd with his memories of early TV - and he did it in the form of a hologram.The Daily Show host, who once had a show with the broadcaster called Tonight with Trevor, took the star-studded audience on a witty trip down M-Net's memory lane, from the days of open time to TV that can "pause and rewind"."It's amazing what technology can do. I can't be there with you but I am here as a hologram. It's so good to see you all," said Noah. You have worked all your life to make a million, I s**t in a garden and made a million Glenn van Loggerenberg, the executive producer of the event, said they had travelled to New York, where Noah is based, to shoot the hologram."Trevor was busy working on his show and he gave us a moment of his time and executed an incredible script. We just briefed him on the idea and he brought in his comedic genius, which worked amazingly well for the hologram."I believe he knew how people would react to certain things, which is why people almost felt like he was present in the room," said Van Loggerenberg.The event, held in a specially built dome at the private broadcaster's premises, highlighted the golden oldies of TV.In between Noah's skits, musical acts spiced things up, starting with South African legend Claire Johnston, whose own journey in the industry also began in the 1980s.</img>Dineo Moeketsi. Image: MADELENE CRONJ Dineo Moeketsi. Image: MADELENE CRONJ Joining her on stage were 2012 Idols SA winner Khaya Mthethwa, 2016 The Voice SA winner Richard Stirton, as well as The Voice SA coaches Kahn Morbee and songstress Lira.There were special appearances by actor and singer Themba Ndaba and The Muses as well as some vocals from Clash of the Choirs contestants and a performance by award-winning Nigerian star 2Face.Other guests included soccer star Siphiwe Tshabalala, who arrived at the event with his wife, former Miss South Africa Bokang Montjane; South African Football Association boss Danny Jordaan; and SuperSport United coach Stuart Baxter.Other faces at the event included those of TV personalities Sello Maake ka Ncube, Thembi Nyandeni, Israel Makoe, Jessica Nkosi, Mampho Brescia and Khabonina Qubeka.</img>Terry Pheto at M-Net's 30th birthday bash. Image: MADELENE CRONJ Terry Pheto at M-Net's 30th birthday bash. Image: MADELENE CRONJ Rabie, who won the first Big Brother SA in 2001 and gained notoriety for defecating in the garden on live TV, was his comical self."When I joined the show I was just a farm guy from Cape Town and knew nothing except the fact that I was going onto the show to promote my company. When people ask me why I pooed in the garden I always say: 'You have worked all your life to make a million, I s**t in a garden and made a million,'" he said.Big Brother Africa presenter IK Osakioduwa said he got his break with the channel in 2003."I went from being just a presenter to hosting their big shows and now I am producing a show to be aired on their channels. It's been a real journey with them," he said.M-Net CEO Yolisa Phahle, who took to the stage in a stunning red dress, said the company's greatest achievement was "the remarkable and diverse group of people who bring this enduring brand to life in so many ways each day".