Drawing on feedback from nearly 10,000 gay, straight, bisexual and lesbian sportspeople, the academically reviewed report revealed that: Rugby was the most popular sport among adult gay male participants. 80% of all participants and 82% of lesbian, gay and bisexual participants said they had witnessed or experienced homophobia in sport. Rugby's Jozi Cats are tackling gay stereotypes Most gay men felt unwelcome in sport, with 54% saying they were "not at all accepted" or only "accepted a little" versus 36% of lesbians who felt this way. More than half the gay (54%) and bisexual men (60%), nearly half the lesbians (48%) and 29% of the bisexual women surveyed said they had personally experienced homophobia. Homophobic language, in particular slurs such as "faggot" or "dyke", was the most common form witnessed or personally experienced by all participants, regardless of sexuality. 78% said an openly lesbian, gay or bisexual (LGB) person would not be safe as a spectator at a sporting event. 30% of gay male participants said they did not come out because they feared discrimination by coaches and officials. 81% of gay men and 74% of lesbians who were under 22 at the time of the study reported being completely or partly in the closet towards teammates while playing youth sport. Reasons gay players remained in the closet included fear of bullying (49%) and rejection by their teammates (46%), while a third feared discrimination from coaches and officials."Sport is the last remaining pocket of western society where homophobia isn't just common, it is accepted as normal," said Erik Denison, the report's study manager. "Gay people should feel safe to play rugby, or any other sport, on any team without fear of rejection. We have a long way to go before that becomes a reality."One day I hope we don't need gay rugby teams. Until gay people feel safe to play sport, on any team, we need gay teams to create those safe and welcoming environments. Every time an openly gay rugby player plays, they are challenging stereotypes that gay people can't or don't play tough, competitive sports like rugby. The Jozi Cats will do this at every game they play." Every time an openly gay rugby player plays, they are challenging stereotypes that gay people can't or don't play tough, competitive sports like rugby While gay and inclusive clubs are one way of helping tackle homophobia in rugby, he said more must be done."We need to focus now on developing and implementing policies and programmes to end homophobia in sport," he said. "The first step should be a zero tolerance of any homophobic language, combined with training of players and officials around why this language is so damaging to gay people. It's not just banter or a bit of fun, it is literally killing your teammates who are suffering in silence. These people kill themselves rather than face rejection if they come out as gay."This was echoed by the ex-Welsh rugby captain Gareth Thomas, who wrote in the foreword of Out in the Fields: "We all like to have a good laugh when playing or watching sport. However, when this comes at the expense of gay people, it pushes athletes trying to hide their sexuality, deeper in the closet or they simply stop playing team sports. I am one of those who hid his sexuality for years because this kind of language created an environment where it seemed impossible to be accepted as a gay man."