'Reuben Cooks at Home' (Quivertree) is my fourth cookbook. Putting together a cookbook is a great way of defining yourself and your food. I enjoyed the process, as I always do. My advice to any chef wanting to write a cookbook would be to start putting together recipes, understand and define the theme and then approach some publishers. You might get lucky if you have a new story to tell.My closest friends are fine about inviting me around and cooking for me. I tend not to interfere and I talk about anything but food. If I'm asked to assist, I do it with the greatest of pleasure. I love home cooking and whenever I am invited into someone's home I surrender completely to their hospitality.My three go-to signature dishes for entertaining at home are always pork belly, roasted prawns and strawberry shortbread. All these recipes are in the new book.Irresistible recipes that'll give you a taste of Reuben Riffel's new cookbookMy style of cooking is fresh, playful and familiar.My favourite takeaway is plain old fish and chips.If I lived my life over again, I would still choose to be a chef for sure. If not, possibly a travel food writer. I love travelling, food and people.Cooking can be taught but to start with you need to have the inclination. Then there are other skills necessary to run a business, like cost controls and people management. It helps to get a grasp of those things before you go into the industry.I would not discourage my children from becoming chefs. But I will paint the exact picture of what it's really like.The defining moment of my career was opening my own restaurant, Reuben's Restaurant &amp; Bar, in my home town Franschhoek.The most challenging part of my job is the time spent away from my kids.It might sound like a clich , but it is so important to me to stay humble, grateful and to understand that my success was never just due to me. I know how to work with people and have been taught to respect others no matter who you are. It's a basic but important principle and I believe it is one of the many things that has contributed to our success. I have great people supporting me and working with me, starting with my wife, Maryk . 'Reuben Cooks at Home' (Quivertree, R345)