TAKING KIDS TO INDIA AND DUBAII am travelling to India and Dubai and would like to know if there is a specific consent form that one needs to fill in if you are travelling abroad with your nephew on a holiday? Will an ordinary letter suffice or an affidavit signed by his father? He is my late sister's son. We have an unabridged certificate.Which hotel in Colaba or Santa Cruz, Mumbai, would you recommend we book as we want to be near the shopping district? We would like a three- or four-star hotel.Also, should we pre-book our tickets for Kidzania in Mumbai and Ferrari World in Abu Dhabi? - Sharifa Koor Dubai launches world s largest indoor theme parkPresumably your nephew is under the age of 18, in which case you will need to travel with his unabridged birth certificate; a letter of consent from his father; and his mother's death certificate.There is no specific form; just have him write a letter that includes the father and son's full names and ID numbers/passport numbers, as well as yours, as the person who has permission to travel with him.Have his father make copies of all these documents and take them to a police station (or any commissioner of oaths) to have them certified.He will also need to take along his ID to have his letter stamped so I recommend getting a few copies of this certified as well. When you go to check in, carry extra (certified) copies of the dad's letter and his ID, the mother's death certificate and your nephew's unabridged birth certificate - some airlines want to keep copies when you check in.Though it's not strictly necessary you don't want to run into any hiccups at the last minute. Of course, your nephew will also need his passport.It is difficult to recommend any specific hotels but you can find myriad choices on the major websites such as Booking.com, Expedia and Tripadvisor, and others. The reviews of other travellers should help you narrow your choices down. One nice option (from online reviews) is the four-star Gordon House Hotel at 5, Battery Street, Apollo Bunder, Colaba, which is near the Gateway of India and has had many good reviews.The indoor theme park KidZania Mumbai is in Ghatkopar West, Mumbai. You would feel more organised if you pre-booked (a four-hour slot or all-day pass) on kidzaniaindia-tickets.com. You can do this close to the time - at the time of writing I could book for the next day.Likewise, you can book Ferrari World Abu Dhabi on Yas Island in Abu Dhabi, at ferrariworldabudhabi.com.A one-day adult ticket costs AED 275 (about R1,000), a junior ticket for kids under 1.3m high is AED 230 (about R800). You may have more need to pre-book here as queues can be long, and take a jersey. This may be in a very hot place but the air-conditioning is pretty cold, apparently.TIPS ON THE CAMINOI am considering doing the El Camino walk with my sister and some friends in May/June next year and wondered if you could recommend which organisation I should go through. There are a number of operators on the web, and I would prefer to go with your recommendation - if you have one. - Gail NelOur occasional contributor Nancy Richards, who has done the Camino, advises that you contact the Cape-based Confraternity St James of South Africa, who will have all the information you need. Go to csjofsa.za.org or find them on Facebook.They organise walks in Cape Town and on St James Day (July 25) they have a special service at St James church in St James.She also recommends, as the must-have guide book, Camino de Santiago by John Brierley.May or June are excellent months to go as there are early summer flowers and it is not too hot.