I've known for a while that Westworld was going to be the new big thing in blockbuster drama series. I've seen multiple references to it as "the next Game of Thrones". I've delayed watching it, however, because people kept describing it as "sci-fi", for which I have a limited appetite.But having finally tackled the first few episodes, I can inform you that a more accurate description of the show is: "Jurassic Park with humans instead of dinosaurs." And in that case, frankly, what's not to like?The comparisons with Jurassic Park are inevitable, because writer Michael Crichton devised both. As in the Jurassic universe, we are introduced to a theme park where rich people come to get their jollies. After paying mega bucks, the guests are transported to an "immersive experience" of the old American West, complete with cowboys, saloons, bandits and brothels.The park is populated with robots who look like humans. They are programmed to participate in pre-scripted storylines which are re-set at the end of every day.The park is the brainchild of ageing maverick Dr Robert Ford, played by Anthony Hopkins, who seems to be getting more Welsh by the year. When Ford updates the software on the robots - or "hosts", as they're known - he adds a new twist, enabling them to draw on memories of past storylines.It's clear from early on in the opening episode that this isn't going to end well. Robots with some measure of autonomous mental function are always terrifying.Watch the trailer for Westworld: Westworld couldn't be more timely. This is the year, after all, in which tech visionaries like Elon Musk came out and said there were decent odds that we are all living in a simulation of reality built by future generations. Can you be certain that you're not a robot yourself? Some Monday mornings, it's hard to tell.The show is immediately gripping, with its storyline bolstered by a star-studded cast and breathtaking scenery. My major concern is its director, JJ Abrams, who was the creative force behind Lost. I believe I have previously mentioned my resentment at Lost, which built its central mystery to unbearable levels of suspense over six long years and then utterly failed to provide a satisfying resolution.I fear something similar may happen with Westworld. There is an evil corporation behind the theme park with interests which go "way beyond gratifying rich assholes who want to play cowboy", to quote an employee. I sincerely hope these secret plans are not endlessly withheld from us, Lost-style. None of us is getting any younger - and unlike the Westworld robots, we can't expect to have our software updated at the end of our lifespan. Or can we?