He says they face an "existential crisis" not only because of the #FeesMustFall campaign but also from general government attitudes to higher education. Anything that threatens standards - be it revenue cuts, uncompleted academic years, campus closures or the emigration of top academics - will have negative, long-term consequences.For business schools like GSB, the results could be catastrophic. Failure to graduate PhD, MBA and other business studies students would lead to loss of recognition by international accreditation agencies.Forfeit this and your status is greatly diminished: South African managers and executives will be left with qualifications with little or no international standing, and therefore limited overseas career opportunities. German example for Setas, collegesSoko, like his peers at other schools, is quick to point out that GSB is on track to complete all its 2016 programmes, but he is concerned about the future. That's why he points to Makerere. The institution, which can trace its history back to 1922 and is the alma mater of several African leaders, was once an African academic beacon."When I visited, its reputation had collapsed," says Soko. "Today it's just one more African university. When I look at its history and the university's decline, I see potential parallels with South Africa. We mustn't think the same can't happen to us."Soko, 47, who joined GSB in 2006 as a senior lecturer before becoming associate professor of international political economy in 2010, will move into the director's office on January 1.He will succeed Walter Baets, who left in June, two years into his second five-year term. Soko will not only have to complete some projects Baets instigated but also repair relationships damaged by the Belgian-born academic's management style.Baets was the first to admit his whirlwind approach wasn't to everyone's taste.Although he was hired to shake up and bring international rigour to what some people considered a "cosy" institution, his tendency to ride roughshod over objectors led to the resignations of several seasoned academics and administrators.In an interview the day before he left, he said: "I would like to engage more with divergent views but I wouldn't know how. If you listen and empathise too much, you don't get where you want to go." The primary role of a business school is to produce managers, entrepreneurs and leaders with the right skills to contribute to the economy Whatever Baets's management faults, few would deny he raised GSB's international profile and reputation, making it a thought leader in innovation and entrepreneurship.He also greatly increased the number of black faculty members - something Soko wants to accelerate, to create "a new layer of leadership", he says."Walter changed GSB for the better. He made it a great school. But a lot of people were bruised. My role is to complete, and build on, the progress he made, take stock of where we are, and also to heal."Soko admits that becoming director is a long-held ambition. He considered applying in 2009, before Baets was appointed - "the outgoing director at that time, Frank Horwitz, wanted me to put my name forward" - but it was too early in his career at the school. In any case, in retrospect, Soko says Baets was the right person at that time. The school needed shaking up, and a more global outlook.Fee dilemma: free degrees, or just cheap?Soko is reluctant to talk of plans before his feet are under the director's desk. But he says: "I want to craft a unified vision of where GSB should position itself for the future. I would like to use GSB's unique position and skills to promote trust and dialogue between government and business."I would also like to give practical expression to the fact that GSB is a South African and an African business school. I want to embed us in an African context. Our students like to go to North America and Europe for their exchange programmes. We don't have enough collaboration with African business schools."It's a view he shares with Baets, who was chairman of the Association of African Business Schools before he left.However, as an internationally recognised and ranked school, GSB must find a way to become more African without losing its global persona.It must also not lose sight of the reason it exists in the first place. "The primary role of a business school is to produce managers, entrepreneurs and leaders with the right skills to contribute to the economy," says Soko."How do we make business a force for good? It's not just about making money: we have to produce leaders and managers who can make a positive social and economic impact."