By the end of high school I'd become a mogul. My tuck-shop business had evolved into a mini empire that included selling pirated CDs I made at home.I had carved out my niche, and was having a great time; life was so good as an outsider that I didn't even think about dating. The only girls in my life were the naked ones on my computer. While I downloaded music and messed around in chat rooms, I'd dabble in porn sites here and there. No video, of course, only pictures. With online porn today you just drop straight into the madness, but with dial-up it took so long for the images to load.It was almost gentlemanly compared to now. You'd spend a good five minutes looking at her face, getting to know her as a person. Then a few minutes later you'd get some boobs. By the time you got to her vagina, you'd spent a lot of quality time together.In September of Grade 12, the matric dance was coming up. This was the big one. I was again faced with the dilemma, confronting another strange ritual I did not understand. All I knew about the matric dance was that, according to my American movies, this is where it happens. You lose your virginity. Trevor Noah's hard life takes a funny old turnYou go and you ride in the limousine, and then you and the girl do the thing. That was literally my only reference. But I knew the rule: cool guys get girls, and funny guys get to hang out with the cool guys with their girls. So I'd assumed I wouldn't be going, or if I did go it wouldn't be with a date.I had two middlemen working for me in my CD business, Bongani and Tom. They sold the CDs that I copied in exchange for a cut.Tom was in my grade but went to a government school, Northview, a proper ghetto school. Tom handled my CD sales over there. Tom was a chatterbox, hyperactive and go-go-go. He was a real hustler, too, always trying to cut a deal, work an angle. He could get people to do anything. A great guy, but fucking crazy and a complete liar as well.One afternoon Tom came over to my place. I told him I didn't have a date."I can get you a girl to go with you to the dance," he said."No, you can't.""Yes, I can. Let's make a deal.""I don't want one of your deals, Tom.""No, listen, here's the deal. If you give me a better cut on the CDs I'm selling, plus a bunch of free music for myself, I'll come back with the most beautiful girl you've ever seen in your life, and she'll be your date for the dance.""Okay, I'll take that deal because it's never going to happen.""I'm going to find you a date. She's going to be the most beautiful girl you've ever seen, and you're going to take her to the matric dance and you're going to be a superstar."The dance was still two months away. I promptly forgot about Tom and his ridiculous deal. Then he came over to my house one afternoon and popped his head into my room."I found the girl.""Really?""Yeah. You have to come and meet her."The two of us jumped on a bus and headed into the city.The girl lived in a run-down block of flats. It was dark in the entrance. The lift was busted, so we walked up several flights.Ten minutes later the door opened and the most beautiful girl I have ever seen in my life walked in. She was ... Good Lord. Beautiful eyes, beautiful golden yellow-brown skin. It was like she glowed. No girl at my high school looked anything like her.</img>Trevor Noah dressed in fashionable attire in 1999, when he still had long hair. Image: TMG ARCHIVESTrevor Noah dressed in fashionable attire in 1999, when he still had long hair. Image: TMG ARCHIVES"Hi," she said."Hi," I replied.I was dumbstruck. I had no idea how to talk to a girl that beautiful. She was shy and didn't speak much either. There was a bit of an awkward pause. Luckily, Tom's a guy who just talks and talks. He jumped right in and smoothed everything over. "Trevor, this is Babiki. Babiki, Trevor."Over the following weeks we went down to Hillbrow a few more times to hang out with Babiki and her sisters and her friends.Babiki and I never went on a date alone. It was always the two of us in a group. She was shy, and I was a nervous wreck most of the time, but we had fun.Tom kept everyone relaxed and having a good time. Whenever we'd say goodbye, Babiki would give me a hug, and once she even gave me a little kiss. I was in heaven. I was like, Yeah, I've got a girlfriend. Cool.As the dance approached, I started getting nervous. I didn't have a car. I didn't have any decent clothes. This was my first time taking out a beautiful girl, and I wanted it to be perfect.We'd moved to Highlands North when my stepfather's garage went out of business, and he moved his workshop to the house. One afternoon Tom and I were at the house. Tom was telling Abel about my date, and Abel decided to be generous.He said I could take a car for the dance.Once I had the car, I desperately needed something to wear. I was taking out this girl who was really into fashion and, except for my Timberlands, everything I owned was shit.I was limited in my wardrobe choices because I was stuck buying in the shops my mother let me go to, and my mother did not believe in spending money on clothes. She'd take me to some bargain clothing store and tell me what our budget was, and I'd have to find something to wear.At the time I had no clue about clothes. My idea of fashion was a brand of clothing called Powerhouse. It was the kind of stuff weightlifters wear to the gym, baggy track pants with baggy sweatshirts.The logo was a cartoon of this giant bodybuilding bulldog wearing wraparound sunglasses and smoking a cigar and flexing his muscles. On the pants he was flexing all the way down your leg. On the shirt he was flexing across your chest. On the underwear, he was flexing on your crotch. I can't lie, I thought Powerhouse was the baddest thing in the world.Bongani, the other middleman from my CD business, found out I had a date, and he made it his mission to give me a makeover. My hair was completely straight. The woman combed it back, and I looked like a pimp, a pimp named Slickback I went to my mom and begged her to give me money to buy something to wear for the dance. She finally relented and gave me R2,000. It was the most money she'd ever given me for anything in my life. I told Bongani how much I had to spend, and he said we'd make it work.He took me shopping and we bought a calf-length black leather jacket, which would look ridiculous today but at the time was very cool. That alone cost R1,200. Then we finished the outfit with a pair of simple black pants, suede squaretoed shoes, and a cream-white knitted sweater.Once we had the outfit, Bongani took a long look at my enormous Afro. I was forever trying to get the perfect 1970s Michael Jackson Afro. What I had was unruly and impossible to comb, like stabbing a garden fork into a haystack."We need to fix that fucking hair," Bongani said."What do you mean?" I said. "This is just my hair.""No, we have to do something."Bongani lived in Alexandra.Bongani dragged me to a hair salon down the street. We went in and sat down. The woman touched my hair, shook her head, and turned to Bongani."I can't work with this sheep," she said. "You have to do something about this.""What do we need to do?""You have to relax it. I don't do that here.""Okay."</img>Cell C CEO Lars P Reichelt and Trevor Noah during the interview in Sandton. Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI Cell C CEO Lars P Reichelt and Trevor Noah during the interview in Sandton. Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI Bongani dragged me to a second salon. I sat down in the chair, and the woman took my hair and started painting this creamy white stuff in it. She was wearing rubber gloves to keep this chemical relaxer off her own skin - which should have been my first clue that maybe this wasn't such a great idea.Once my hair was full of the relaxer she told me, "You have to try to keep it in for as long as possible. It's going to start burning. When it starts burning, tell me and we'll rinse it out. But the longer you can handle it, the straighter your hair will be."I wanted to do it right, so I sat in the chair and waited and waited for as long as I could.I waited too long.She'd told me to tell her when it started burning. She should have told me to tell her when it started tingling, because by the time it was actually burning it had already taken off several layers of my scalp.I was well past tingling when I started to freak out. "It's burning! It's burning!" She rushed me over to the sink and started to rinse the relaxer out. What I didn't know is that the chemical doesn't really start to burn until they're rinsing it out. I felt like someone was pouring liquid fire onto my head. When she was done I had patches of acid burns all over my scalp. Ooooooh! They turned my baby boy into a pretty little girl! I've got a little girl! You're so pretty! I was the only man in the salon; it was all women. It was a window into what women experience to look good on a regular basis. Why would they ever do this? I thought. This is horrible. But it worked. My hair was completely straight. The woman combed it back, and I looked like a pimp, a pimp named Slickback.Bongani then dragged me back to the first salon, and the woman agreed to braid my hair. She worked slowly. It took six hours. Finally she said, "Okay, you can look in the mirror."She turned me around in the chair and I looked in the mirror and ... I had never seen myself like that before. It was like the makeover scene in my American movies, where they take the dorky guy or girl, fix the hair and change the clothes, and the ugly duckling becomes the swan.I'd been so convinced I'd never get a date that I never tried to look nice for a girl, so I didn't know that I could. The hair was good. My skin wasn't perfect, but it was getting better; the pustules had receded into regular pimples. I looked ... not bad.I went home, and my mom squealed when I walked in the door."Ooooooh! They turned my baby boy into a pretty little girl! I've got a little girl! You're so pretty!""Mom! C'mon. Stop it."The big night finally came. The hair, the clothes, everything came together perfectly. Once I was set, we went to Abel to get the keys to the BMW, and that was the moment the whole night started to go wrong.It was a Saturday night, which meant Abel was drinking with his workers. I walked out to his garage, and as soon as I saw his eyes I knew: he was wasted. Fuck. When Abel was drunk he was a completely different person. Seeing the funny side of Trevor Noah's fraught upbringing"Ah, you look nice!" he said with a big smile, looking me over."Where are you going?""Where am I ... Abie, I'm going to the dance.""Okay. Have fun.""Um ... can I get the keys?""The keys to what?""To the car.""What car?""The BMW. You promised I could drive the BMW to the dance.""First go buy me some beers," he said.He gave me his car keys; Tom and I drove to the liquor store.I bought Abel a few cases of beer, drove back, and unloaded it for him."Okay," I said, "can I take the BMW now?""No.""What do you mean 'no'?""I mean 'no'. I need my car tonight.""But you promised. You said I could take it.""Yeah, but I need the car."Finally we realised it wasn't going to happen. We took the shitty Mazda and drove to Babiki's house. I was an hour late picking her up. She was completely pissed off.Then I got lost. I drove around for an hour in the dark, going left, going right, doubling back. I finally figured out where I was and we made it to the dance, nearly two hours late. I parked, jumped out, and ran around to get her door. When I opened it, she just sat there. "Are you ready?" I said. "Let's go in."</img>US model Chrissy Teigen and Trevor Noah leave a benefit gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York earlier this year. Image: JAMES DEVANEY/GC IMAGES US model Chrissy Teigen and Trevor Noah leave a benefit gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York earlier this year. Image: JAMES DEVANEY/GC IMAGES"No.""No? What ... what do you mean, 'no'?""No.""Okay ... but why?""No.""But we need to go inside. The dance is inside.""No."I stood there for another 20 minutes, trying to convince her to come inside, but she kept saying "no". She wouldn't get out of the car.Finally, I said, "Okay, I'll be right back."I ran inside and found Bongani."Where have you been?" he said."I'm here! But my date's in the car and she won't come in.""What do you mean she won't come in?""I don't know what's going on. Please help me."Bongani went back over to the car to try to convince Babiki to come in. After a minute his head popped up over the car with this confused look."Yo, Trevor," he said, "your date does not speak English.""What?""Your date. She does not speak any English." Trevor Noah: My father isn't on my birth certificate"That's not possible."I got up and walked over to the car. I asked her a question in English and she gave me a blank stare.Bongani looked at me."How did you not know that your date does not speak English?""I ... I don't know.""Have you never spoken to her?""Of course I have - or, wait ... have I?"I started flashing back through all the times I'd been with Babiki. Did I talk to her then? In all the excitement of meeting Babiki, the times we were hanging out and getting to know each other, we were never actually speaking to each other. It was always through Tom.Fucking Tom.Babiki was so shy that she didn't talk much to begin with, and I was so inept with women that I didn't know how to talk to her.Now the whole night came rushing back and I saw it from her point of view, and it was perfectly obvious to me why she didn't want to get out of the car.She probably hadn't wanted to go to the dance with me in the first place; she probably owed Tom a favour, and Tom can talk anyone into anything.Then I'd left her sitting and waiting for me for an hour and she was pissed off. Then she got into the car and it was the first time we had ever been alone, and she realised I couldn't even hold a conversation with her.I'd driven her around and gotten lost in the dark - a young girl alone in a car in the middle of nowhere with some strange guy, no idea where I was taking her. She was probably terrified.Then we got to the dance and she didn't speak anyone's language. She didn't know anyone. She didn't even know me. Bongani and I stood outside the car, staring at each other.I asked Bongani if he spoke Sepedi. He didn't. Of course he didn't. I ran inside to the dance and ran around looking for someone who spoke Sepedi to help me to convince her to come in. Nobody spoke Sepedi.So I never got to go to my matric dance. Other than the three minutes I spent running through it looking for someone who spoke Sepedi, I spent the whole night in the parking lot. 'Born a Crime and Other Stories' is published by Pan Macmillan (R285)