What do you do at work each day?Every day is different. Between running the business and being a mom, my days are predominantly spent with clients doing hair.What are the four most important tasks you do at work? Ensuring all members of my staff are emotionally and physically equipped with everything they need to have a happy, productive day; Updating myself daily on the latest industry trends by tapping into social media and connecting with international stylists; Interacting with clients; and Above all, my day is all about hair with regular clients and new clients. My affiliation with L'Or al is also an important element of my work life because of the high standard of training and trends that I am exposed to . IT self-starter on the start-up trailWhat do you think makes someone an excellent hairdresser?There are many things that make you a leader in your field. As a hairdresser, I've learnt that it's vital to really listen to your clients and make an effort to understand each person's needs and their relationship with their hair. It sounds strange, but whether we're aware of it or not, we all have a way of seeing ourselves, and our hair plays a big part in that. Added to this is that one needs to keep up with trends and be able to translate or adapt them to your clients, taking their needs into consideration.Last, I believe attention to detail makes the difference between a good stylist and an excellent one. I've been fortunate to work alongside some true masters, and, without fail, their focus has been the most definitive element.How did you end up working in the beauty industry?I was always more creatively than academically inclined and couldn't see myself in a corporate environment. It was on my mother's suggestion that I got into hairdressing and found my passion.What was your first paying job, and what was the most important lesson you learnt there?My first paying job was with Glemby International in Cape Town. I met my mentor there, Stan Newnham, who taught me to pay attention to detail, which I believe was very valuable and has ultimately elevated my standard of work.What did you want to be when you were a child?I wanted to be a nursery school teacher because I love children.What do you love about your job?I love the creativity, the variety and the interaction with clients, and the friendships I have built up and that have lasted for many years. FNB's 'Steve': work smart, not harderWhen hiring people, what characteristics do you look for?Staff have to be passionate about their work and need to be personable. It's important in this industry to be a people person as it comes through in your work.What are the big hair trends due to hit South Africa this summer?We have just showcased one of the biggest summer colour trends on our recent L'Or al Professionnel road show - the colour of the moment is rose gold. It is massive internationally. The soft pink and gold adds a warm hue. It is also extremely pretty and suits most skin tones. Another big trend is a colour technique called strobing - a method of colouring hair that highlights areas for a flattering effect on the hair and face.What two things do you wish your clients would do to take better care of their hair?Using decent products at home is a big part of maintaining good condition. Regular maintenance makes a big difference. Ask your stylist to teach you how to manage and understand your hair type, and they will assist in addressing your biggest concerns and needs. We also advise clients to have conditioning salon treatments every few months, especially if you colour regularly and use heated styling tools daily.