Interim coach Augusto Palacios, who famously led Pirates to the league title in 2011-2012 while also in charge on a temporary basis, steered the Buccaneers ship out of rough seas as he enjoyed a winning start. In 2011-2012, the club also bagged the Telkom Knockout Cu p .Palacios replaces Muhsin Ertugral, who resigned on Thursday, a day after overseeing a record league defeat of 6-1 at the hands of SuperSport United in Mbombela. Well deserved, MatsatsantsaYesterday, a Tendai Ndoro strike on the hour mark doubled Pirates lead following an own goal in the 40th minute from his Zimbabwean countryman Augustine Mbara, with Mothobi Mvala netting for the visitors.This put the Buccaneers through to the semifinals. It was the Lions of the North who got out of their blocks first and could have gone in front as early as the third minute.Mvala got at the end of a corner kick and headed powerfully towards goal, only for Pirates skipper Oupa Manyisa to clear off the goal-line. Thanduyise Khuboni threatened the Pirates goal-line with a dipping long-range shot shortly after, but goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo did well to tip the ball over the crossbar.The hosts should have opened the scoring in the 27th minute when rightback Thembela Sikhakhane found Ndoro with a long pass. The striker controlled the ball well before delivering a pin-point cross for Luvuyo Memela, who could only glance his header inches wide of target with just keeper Tapuwa Kapini to beat.Collins Mbesuma should have put the visitors ahead at the other end after he found some space inside the box, but his header went narrowly over the crossbar.Memela also had an opportunity to score but failed to compose himself as he combined well with Thabo Rakhale and Ndoro going forward. With five minutes to the interval, rightback Sikhakhane was brought down by Franklin Cale near the edge of the box on the right and referee Phillip Tinyane whistled for a foul and flashed a yellow card.The Buccaneers went in front from the resultant free kick. Memela delivered a telling cross into the box, which Highlands defender Mbara headed into his own net. Blues chew up Toffees as Black Cats end losing runThe second half started on a rather pedestrian pace as both sides tried to find their composure. But Pirates soon found their rhythm and started to ask questions of the Highlands defence with Mpho Makola, Rakhale, Ndoro and Memela on the fast lane.Pirates doubled their lead with 30 minutes remaining. The Highlands last line were caught napping when Rakhale took a quick free kick to Makola, who crossed to Ndoro for an easy tap in.Mvala pulled one back six minutes later, and, although Highlands staged a late rally to try to take the match into extra time, luck wasn t on their side as they missed chance after chance.Gordon Igesund, who began his tenure as Highlands Park coach with a win to knock out Chippa United in the last round, looked agitated on the bench and will probably feel his team were the better side and deserved something much better.Pirates join SuperSport United and Cape Town City in the last four. Yesterday United beat Mamelodi Sundowns 3-1 in a penalty shootout at the Lucas Moripe Stadium, while City triumphed 4-3 away at Baroka FC. They will be joined by the winner of today s match between Free State Stars and Kaizer Chiefs.Orlando Pirates 2Highlands Park 1