Ramahlwe Mphahlele lobbed in a cross-cum-shot to put Chiefs ahead in the 39th minute of this big showdown. But Sundowns class shone through with answers by Tebogo Langerman (41st) and Sibusiso Vilakazi (53rd).The kickoff was delayed from 3.30pm to 3.45pm to allow fans in peacefully. Shockingly, for such a big match, access to the stadium was disorganised, resulting in a gate being pushed down by supporters, and in dangerous crushes.Once the action started the match-up between the new African champions, sporting a star above their emblem for the first time, against the starless biggest club in the country, was tight, tough and competitive.And high quality, between the best team in the country and a gutsy Chiefs, whose new-look, underrated line-up have ` found their feet in 2016-17 and will be written off at peril by any opposition.This is what PSL football at its best is about packed stadiums, teams playing for pride as much as points, frenetic action and drama.Both sides had notable omissions. For Sundowns, Khama Billiat pulled up with a groin strain in training on Thursday.Chiefs could not find room for in a 3-5-2 formation for left wing George Lebese. Coach Steve Komphela gave only a second start of the season to big Zambian striker Lewis Macha.Downs coach Pitso Mosimane had goalkeeper Denis Onyango and left-back Langerman back from injury.Chiefs three centre-backs Mulomowandau Mathoho, Daniel Cardoso and Lorenzo Gordinho were given a torrid time by a Sundowns frontline who have cut their teeth in the past nine months on top-class continental opposition.Anthony Laffor is in a class of his own at the moment, even at his inconsistent worst. Percy Tau is surfing the same monstrous wave.Laffor had an early shot at Itumeleng Khune, then in the 25th had space to chest down Langerman s cross and strike into the midriff of prostrate Gordinho.Chiefs, though, clawed back into a frantic game. On attack in the 39th minute right wing-back Mphahlele beat Langerman and what appeared to be a cross looped in perfectly over the head of Onyango.Form that setback Sundowns just stepped things up. Laffor robbed the ball off Willard Katsande and fed Keagan Dolly, who had time and space to lay off for Langerman on the overlap down the left, who slammed in the equaliser.Now, this was a game, George Maluleka heading Mphahlele s cross over from eight metres.Sundowns, though, are in irresistible form and one had the sense Chiefs would struggle to contain them from the break.So it was as Mabunda s chip picked out Laffor on the left edge of the area who put through a pass for Tau. The forward took the ball past Khune, but too far, pulled back and still managed a shot that was palmed by Chiefs keeper only as far as Vilakazi, who spooned in Downs second.Amakhosi continued to threaten, dangerous left midfielder Mitchell Katsvairo s low cross getting a touch wide by substitute Bernard Parker.Referee Daniel Bennett somehow did not award Downs a penalty when Tau was held back by Katsande skipping through on goal. Sundowns increasingly toyed with Chiefs towards the end, Laffor s header from Vialakazi s cross forcing a fine stop from Khune.Onyango bizarrely headed a deflected corner onto his own crossbar near the end. If it had gone in it would have been an injustice to Downs.