"You will have to prove criminal intent - that the perpetrator or perpetrators had in mind to sabotage the country. That's quite a leap from having acted with recklessness or stupidity or even just plain malice towards Gordhan."But Kriegler, 83, says hard questions still need to be asked about the circumstances surrounding the laying of charges against the minister."If it could be shown that the National Prosecuting Authority were acting on instructions in prosecuting the minister of finance on spurious grounds, I think you've proved your case of somebody deliberately trying to undermine the financial stability of the country, which would point to sabotage."Kriegler's NGO and the Helen Suzman Foundation mounted a swift legal counterattack after the October 11 announcement by Abrahams that charges against Gordhan had been laid. This led to the national director of public prosecutions withdrawing the charges on Monday. Abrahams spoils showAbrahams's announcement of the charges triggered another plunge in the rand. More than R50-billion in value was wiped off the market, foreign investors sold off R143-billion in bonds and stocks and trust in the rule of law in South Africa was badly shaken.The perception that the NPA does not respect the rule of law is the most dangerous consequence of Abrahams's action.For South Africa's economy it could be terminal; it is this that has prompted questions about sabotage.There is no more certain way to destroy an economy than by creating negative perceptions about the rule of law, Kriegler says.The experience of countries in Latin America demonstrates a direct correlation between perceptions about the rule of law and the economy."The rule of law is a fundamental underpinning of the economy. In the absence of confidence in the ability of people to do business, in the absence of confidence that the law will enforce contract, will enforce undertakings solemnly given, the economy must collapse."The currency may have recovered following the withdrawal of the charges against Gordhan but negative perceptions of the rule of law are a lot harder to recover from.The laying of such transparently specious charges reinforced perceptions that the NPA is no protector of the rule of law in this country.The reputational damage Abrahams has inflicted on an organisation whose independence and competence are crucial to the rule of law could be a strong argument in the case that Freedom Under Law is planning to bring against Abrahams: that he is not a fit and proper person to lead the NPA."One of the allegations I'm sure we'll be levelling against Abrahams is that he has brought the administration of justice into disrepute. Bring it on, bring it on. I think they've cried wolf once too often. I don't think the markets will react as badly again "The fact that it is criminal justice, not civil justice, is not that important. The concept that the constitution recognises a judiciary which functions with proper authority, with competent and honest lawyers, is fundamental, and Abrahams through his conduct has done that perception a great deal of harm."Abrahams's brash, bombastic style has also added to perceptions that the NPA under his leadership does not take the rule of law seriously, Kriegler says."We have never litigated in a Hollywood, fanfare, circus style. That has done our administration of justice harm. This beating of your shield and proclaiming to the world, 'Just wait and see what we're going to prove against these people' in a media conference is not the way businessmen like the law to be done, and not the way lawyers like the law to be done."We do it quietly, normally, formally, correctly. Not as part of show business." Captain SA sails to the rescue - yet againCriminal intent and sabotage may be impossible to prove but hard questions need to be asked."How is it possible that elementary steps in the investigation were not taken? Is it possible it was just a stupid policeman, which [Hawks boss] Berning Ntlemeza quite clearly is, or is it a much more sinister intent?"Although "certainly worth looking at a good deal more closely", this is not a line Freedom Under Law will pursue.However, the organisation will be looking "much more closely" at South African Revenue Service boss Tom Moyane and "the whole rogue unit debacle, and saying that there is a much more immediate motive for having Gordhan charged, namely, that somebody wants to get control of SARS".More immediately, he wants Abrahams dismissed on the grounds that he is not fit and proper for his job."He went public in an hour-long tirade in which he maligned the minister. It now transpires that he must have known that the case lacked a fundamental substratum."If he didn't know this, it was a dereliction of duty."To go out on a limb and say, 'I can give the country an assurance that this is a good case, just wait until we get to court', and then weeks later - shamefacedly, because two little NGOs had managed to find a document that was sitting there all along - he doesn't apologise, he doesn't say, 'I'm desperately sorry, the minister did nothing wrong and the country should know that' ... He still tries to obfuscate with section this and regulation that, and then sneaks in, 'but there was no evidence of criminal intent'."Even if Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation succeed, the example of former National Director of Public Prosecutions Menzi Simelane, who was eventually found to be not fit and proper, suggests that this will not happen overnight."These things do take a long time. It's a great pity," Kriegler says. It's not a fault in the constitution that the president makes bad appointments. It's the fault of the president Meanwhile Abrahams, who says he isn't going anywhere, has hinted darkly that the country has not heard the last of the "rogue unit" allegations."Bring it on, bring it on. I think they've cried wolf once too often. I don't think the markets will react as badly again."The charges relating to the 'rogue unit' are even more spurious than those relating to the early pensioning of [former SARS deputy commissioner] Ivan Pillay."Kriegler does not agree with those, including former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, who feel that the achilles heel of the constitution is that it allows the president to make key appointments to chapter nine institutions - which are supposed to be fully independent."It's not a fault in the constitution that the president makes bad appointments. It's the fault of the president."It's not a fault of the constitution that appointments to public office by parliamentary sub-committee recommendation prove to be defective."Simelane's appointment was not a fault of the constitution. Mampara of the week: Shaun Abrahams"It is the appointing officer's fault. It was done in bad faith. And if things are done in bad faith the law can't help you. Not immediately. It can remedy it with hindsight."Don't blame the constitution, "blame the people who don't make the darn thing work".If the president makes "irrational" appointments, the constitution provides for his decisions to be taken on judicial review and set aside.The fact that by then the damage has been done - the fact that 10 years after charges were laid against President Jacob Zuma he has still not been prosecuted - is likewise neither the fault of the constitution nor the legal system, he says."If you have a skilled litigating team playing the rules, playing the delaying game, it's very, very difficult for the applicant, or for the court, to get the thing ready for hearing. It takes two to tango."If you want to stop a future president abusing the system, don't expect the law to do it."The fourth estate has much more of a role to play in informing the public of deviations from the rules. And the media have played their role magnificently."He concedes that the country is still in big trouble - "but we're a darned sight better off than we were in the old regime"."We may be in that street, but we were near the railway line in the old regime."