A friend recently called to announce that he had just bought a piece of technology from 10 years ago, a little box with a screen and a circular dial with four buttons. I hadn't seen one in almost a decade, but I knew at once what it was, and I hated him immensely for remembering that it existed.It might seem odd, given the ubiquity of the iPhone, to think of a time when Apple was known for anything other than being the purveyor of Rose Gold wearables and other achingly cool devices that don't explode. But 10 years ago, they were pioneering something that would mug our traditional relationship to music like a thief in a dark alley.Who needs an iPhone 7 when an old model would do?The pre-touchscreen iPod (which ended its days under the derisory tag "iPod Classic") isn't as cool as you remember. If you hold one now, it's disturbingly fat, and the tell-tale whirr beneath its stainless (but not scratch-proof) surface tells you it belongs to a more delicate era of data storage. The sense of holding an anachronism in your hand disappears, however, when you thumb that iconic wheel - the iPod Classic is nothing if not tactile.When it appeared in the early years of the century, it seemed like the future had come early. Apple knew the best place to go if you wanted to make something look futuristic was to the past.The iPod looked the way it did - all calm blue lighting and satin-white frame - because that's what Star Trek and Quantum Leap had conditioned us to expect. It was new, but it was instantly at home, and it was instantly better than whatever you were using.The iPod's genius was to seem so simple that it appeared inevitable. Marketing played a big role in this. The ads set the blueprint for today's iPhone marketing, which doesn't tell you what benchmark tests its processor won, or how its screen is 70% better than your now obsolete three-month-old iPhone.The ads, with their silhouetted figures contrasted against the white cables, encouraged you to see yourself as one of the fun and innovative people who were buying into the future. Suddenly, it was possible to always have your own music with you. It was your universe made digital and stylish. Crucially, the iPod brought liberation from the tyranny of choice. Previously, you had to choose what music you took with you because you couldn't carry everything around. Records are heavy. Tapes have a nasty habit of disembowelling. CDs scratch if you look at them too intently, and anyway, each of these requires a separate machine. We're encouraged to pass the aux cable, to Bluetooth our private music into the atmosphere, and that means we curate our music with the awareness that others might hear it (and judge us for it) The iPod was self-contained, and it meant you didn't have to have the whole album when you simply wanted a particular song. It made you the centre of the experience.The experience was conceived as a solitary one. For all its new-age gloss, the iPod was essentially refining the privatised music experience pioneered 20 years before. When Sony created the Walkman, it was because the company's co-founder wanted something he could take on a plane. It was a way to use music to transport you away from where you were.Even though the early prototypes included a second headphone jack, the production model recognised the need for personal space in a world that was growing increasingly smaller.People like me - early Generation Yers - are probably the last set of people whose listening habits inclined towards the private. Of course, our parents are to blame. The rise of the personal music player is a direct result of having been subjected to the music choices of others.Nintendo and Sony do battle with old vs. new console launchesThe iPod signified rejection of others taken to its glorious conclusion, epitomised by the iconic white earphones that drew attention to the fact that you were shutting out the world.That's why it's so jarring when you're passed in the street by newer members of the millennial set blaring their music. In rejection of older ideas of personal space, these individuals vandalise your peace with their tinny loudspeakered passion. It's a different and louder relationship to the world, in which music becomes a wearable expression of self.Admittedly, this wouldn't have been strange to young people 35 years ago, when boomboxes were de rigueur. But now, having passed through an era of musical introspection, we are returning to music as a more public pleasure.We're encouraged to pass the aux cable, to Bluetooth our private music into the atmosphere, and that means we curate our music with the awareness that others might hear it (and judge us for it).It's fitting then that in a month where social media pioneer Mxit turned off its servers and smartphone voortrekker BlackBerry stopped making phones, the biggest and most polarising news was that Apple had literally cut the cord. The iconic white earphones that symbolised your belonging to the Club of Me are now cordless.The current iPod is a pale touchscreen shadow of its former self. While I'm sure it works very well as a technological object, as a piece of design it can't match the old Classic, which has passed through obsolescence and into the kinder realm of nostalgia. Which is why I've just bought one.