Thanks to the Koreans (from K-pop to K-beauty), skincare enthusiasts the world over are embracing the masking trend.Gone are the days when a facial mask was applied like a gel, dried to resemble wood glue, and peeled off in one piece taking those tiny facial hairs with it (ouch).Back in the day, results were less oh-so-glowy, and more taught and tight, with breakouts popping up in three, two...The best face masks for wrinkles, breakouts & moreNow, masks are designed to treat all kinds of skin woes, and textures are innovative and fresh think watery jelly and sheet masks.Sonette Donker, owner of Skin iD and qualified skincare therapist, says: A good mask must address your skin concern, whether it s dehydration, oiliness, breakouts, lines and wrinkles, or sensitivity. That s why these days the concept of using one mask on your whole face is unrealistic: multimasking has taken over. Most of us have combination skin, so why not target forehead oiliness with a purifying mask and then use a hydrating mask on other, thirstier, areas, such as the jaw, for maximum benefits?We live in a world of instants gratification, which is why masking is the perfect way to multitask during those 10 minutes spent catching up on Snapchat. Masks can change skin immediately, making them ideal to use just before a big event or even just for a boost in skin-confidence. Donker says: They re formulated to penetrate only the top layers of the skin, whereas a serum is designed to penetrate the deeper layers. So settle in, get your mask(s) on and look forward to brighter, happier skin one Snapchat at a time.Dehydration: Donker suggests considering a gel mask containing hyaluronic acid and vitamin B3 to restore hydration.Oiliness: Try a clay mask containing salicylic acid, glycolic acid and oil-absorbing clays (bentonite and kaolin clays). This blend of ingredients will absorb the excess oil, leaving the skin matt, and it will sort out the congestion (blackheads and whiteheads).Breakouts: Use a mask with either in a clay or gel base, containing salicylic acid, glycolic acid, lactic acid, mandelic acid, triclosan, charcoal, and azeloglycine. Most formulations will contain three to four of these ingredients, and will help to dry out the pimples, as well as kill the bacteria and reduce the inflammation.Lines and wrinkles: Normally masks that are best for a boost here are formulated with a gel or cream base, and include vitamins A, C, and E, plus brown or red algae and peptides. The main purpose of this mask is to superficially firm the skin and change its texture.Sensitivity: This concern is best addressed with a gel- or cream-based mask with niacinamide (vitamin B3), panthenol (vitamin B5), hyaluronic acid, vitamin E, aloe vera, vitamin K, glycoproteins, ceramides, and lactobionic acid. A clay mask will dry out the eye area, so best to avoid it. A light cream or gel texture is good for the eyes, and sometimes, lips too. Some masks can actually be left on overnight especially the hydrating ones giving beauty sleep new meaning. This article is adapted from one originally published in 'Sunday Times The Edit Spring/Summer '16'. Available to select print subscribers this magazine is your ultimate seasonal fashion guide. Digital subscribers, read 'The Edit' online now.