SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)The adventure has begun - new, different, and certainly unexpected. Pay attention to the signs. Financial advice could come through your dreams - or from a signpost on the side of the road. Sensual fantasies come alive at unexpected moments. Magic happens while you're looking the other way. So awareness is your word for the week. Don't miss out. Let your many talents out to play.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)The love life is scrambling your brains, convincing you that you've been set up. Don't you dare start down that road. No need to give your power away to someone who refuses to give you the respect you deserve. Instead, decide what you want and insist on nothing less. And use the unexpected influx of wealth to revamp your life. After all, you're the one who has to live in your head.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)The love goddess is still on call, repairing your relationships and dissolving the dramas. Let her do her thing, even when you feel you're losing control. These are interesting times, and you'll be different by next year - with new dreams and options. This is one of those occasions when you're required to do little more than get out of your own way. "Surrender" is your word for the week.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Looking for something different? Convinced that everything you do is pointless and futile? Excellent. These are actually positive thoughts. It's the planets' way of telling you that you've passed the latest tests/lessons and are ready for greater things. Use this week for homework, tedious details and maybe a leg-wax. Then work on rendering yourself unrecognisable - even to yourself.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)The emotional hurricane is back as the social life takes a sideways step. Don't fret. If you have to let go of your old life for a while, do it with your typical generosity and an enormous smile. People are on your side, and some interesting changes are about to distract you. Most of all, learn to appreciate how good it feels to spend time with you, you, fabulous you.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)A vaguely functional budget is all that's being asked for, starting today. In which case, no deranged purchases or debauched evenings, where you offer to pay for all 500 guests. No one's impressed if your generosity leaves you penniless. Also, reschedule meetings for later. The energies of negotiation have currently left the planet. Your planet, anyway. The focus is on your creative genius.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)True love is not something you're comfortable with. But that doesn't stop you yearning for it. Well, here's your chance to make it happen. Only those peculiar fears and that absurd stubbornness are stopping the love of your life flying into your arms. Think about the true meaning of love and its benefits. Light the fires. Take a chance. What's the worst that can happen?GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)That half-finished project is even more vulnerable than you think. Fear not. Sure, there may be budget cuts and even an apparent loss of support from the less visionary types. But you're far more resourceful than you realise and like nothing more than an opportunity to pull rabbits out of hats. Then, if all else fails, ask your contacts for advice. They're amazingly keen to help. Trust yourself.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Job pressures are getting your attention. You'll simply have to rustle up one of those death-defying miracles you're so good at. And when you've managed that, how about paying some attention to a tottering love life? Or rather, to a family that's determined to cause enough trouble to force you to act. Stay calm and remember that you can change the plan anytime you choose.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Money - not necessarily yours - will influence your moves all week, if you let it. The fact is, the resources of those close to you are in turmoil. For you, personally, the focus is on home, family and inner consciousness. How about some therapy? Or yoga. Your soul wants upliftment. Your heart needs nourishment. Your mind needs clarity. Buy a book. Be patient.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)An astonishing twist shakes even someone as unshakeable as you. Success is waiting, though it may mean a radical change of direction. Even so, all this stress is draining your energy. So if you can't manage a break, at least get a massage. Better still, find someone to talk to. You're in for a hectic time and all that baggage is weighing you down. Drop it and move on.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)No matter how loudly you complain, you'll need to use this week to sort out your budget. Yawn? Certainly. But not even excitable little you can keep pouring money down that hole without making sure of new supplies. So come now. Being a grown-up is not so terrible. There are some really fun bits. For a start, you get to decide how and when to use those zillion talents.