Monique Fleming from Bonafide Beards says that having a beard has become a lifestyle. For the longest time people have tried to convince us that beards are just a fad that it's going. We're talking about a three-year fad. Fads don't last that long. Initially it started as a trend but it has given men the freedom to break away from societal norms of what is considered prim and proper in the workplace. [Now] they've adopted it as a lifestyle choice rather than a fad. Boyden Barnardo of Freedom Hair Barbering &amp; Coffee known for his beard trimming skills says his clients are beard people and grow beards for various reasons. Some people are not allowed to shave on doctor's orders. Some have sensitive skin some get bad ingrowns. Contrary to the belief that beards are unhygienic Barnardo says a well looked after beard is clean.EXPERT TIPS FOR GROWING A BEARDMo Begg from the Gentleman's Beard Club gives his tips for growing a beautiful beard: The first step to growing a beard is obviously to stop shaving for a period of six weeks. During this period one would notice a horrible condition called beard itch. This is because the skin beneath the newly grown hair does not usually get a lot of face cream reaching it. The Gentleman's Beard Oil is designed to stop this condition and used to nourish the underlying skin. "Once your beard has reached 6 weeks' maturity it is essential to go for regular barber trims. It is useful to keep a pocket beard comb in your car or desk while it is essential to use a beard brush daily each time one applies any products to the beard. Scissors are useful too as these can trim stray hairs. Fleming says growing the perfect beard is about perseverance. Not all men can grow beards. It's kind of like boobs. Either you have the genetics or you don't. To grow a beard find a good barber that can help you maintain it. Product use should start on the day of growth. While having a beard has become very cool it is no substitute for good manners Barnardo says: Having a beard doesn't make you a man. You've got to have the core values. TMG Digital