Pietermaritzburg businessman Denzil Pillay, who reported the threat to the South African Human Rights Commission this week, said they received an anonymous letter last Saturday night.It read: "Please Note!!!! If there is a repeat performance of last years shocking big bang this year ... The Police will be called. The community is watching and waiting!! You have been warned. We do not tolerate this as a community. Kidly comply with the law!! NO BIG BANGS!!! [sic]"Pillay said that for the past five years they had had family over at their house in Lincoln Meade to celebrate Diwali, the Hindu Festival of Lights, and never had any problems. Residents of luxury estate tell beauty salon 'no shopkeepers'"After receiving the letter we hired a security guard for the night. On Sunday evening an aggressive neighbour arrived at the gate, shouting at us to stop lighting fireworks. He then went away and returned the next day to apologise for upsetting us."Pillay said they viewed the CCTV footage, which showed a woman placing the letter in their letter box while a car waited for her.The spat came as a national supermarket chain celebrated Neighbour Day today. The campaign, also conducted in Australia and Paris, is aimed at getting people to forget their differences and to reach out and get to know their neighbours.Spar asked people to share their great neighbourhood stories on social media.Group merchandise executive Mike Prentice said the idea was to inspire happy and positive sentiment in South Africa.Spar has received thousands of good neighbour stories from across the country.Lucille de Klerk, of Cape Town, praised her neighbour Ruth Le-chandre Wevers, a beauty consultant, for helping her daughter Megan to get ready for her matric dance in September."I had mentioned to Ruth how expensive it was to have hair, makeup and nails done. She then offered to assist and asked some of her friends in the beauty industry to also help. When I started my braai fire, opened a can of beer and rubbed my belly, Mrs Radermacher slammed her windows shut and tried to enjoy her cheese and wine while choking with fury "Ruth's friend did Megan's hair and charged just R500 for an upstyle. Ruth's husband then offered my husband his new car to take Megan to the dance. Who would just lend someone their new car? They also lent us their camera. I am so grateful to them," said De Klerk.Johann de Bruyn, of Knysna, wrote how his neighbour got annoyed over his behaviour while he was watching sport."Picture this, one 55-year-old Afrikaans male who loves to braai (at least four times a week), drinks beer, burps loud, and screams at the top of his voice when watching rugby and soccer with his buddies versus one 84-year old Swiss lady who speaks funny, eats cheese on Saturdays, listens to opera and reads maps for relaxation."</img>Lucille de Klerk with son Mark, husband Ernest, daughter Stacey and Megan with the car their neighbours lent them for Megan's matric dance. Image: SuppliedLucille de Klerk with son Mark, husband Ernest, daughter Stacey and Megan with the car their neighbours lent them for Megan's matric dance. Image: SuppliedMrs Radermacher did not grasp the craving for "cooking over a fire a South African has. To her it was a very strange, very barbaric way (and a total waste of time) to prepare a meal."When I started my fire, opened a can of beer, rubbed my belly and enjoyed the outdoors, she slammed her windows shut, closed her curtains and tried to enjoy her cheese and wine dinners while choking with fury (or, according to her, the smoke from the fire)," wrote De Bruyn."One day, I lit another fire. I braaied a golden-brown chicken on the Weber, juicy chops and wors and my speciality, crispy braaibroodjies with melting oozing cheese."I tucked my T-shirt into my black rugby shorts, stacked a plate and boldly went where I never dared to go before."To make a long story short, Mrs Radermacher thoroughly enjoyed my 'peace offering'!"She still does not light her own fires but understands 'where I'm coming from' and loves the taste of braaied meat. She now buys chops and asks me if I'd mind putting it on the braai. Windows are not slammed anymore. Her curtains are open and she waves while I braai her feast."