But like the painful memory of the brutal forced removals of the 1960s, the controversy around the land endures.Investors who bought the land - where Lopes's home and those of more than 100 other coloured families once stood - with the intention of building a "R750-million ultra-luxury development" are embroiled in a bitter legal spat with American businessman Allen Tavakoli. This time, the fight is over views.The families were evicted from the Tramway cottages in Sea Point under the Group Areas Act and banished to the Cape Flats. The land was turned into a park. The Tramway Road Community Trust, which Lopes chaired, lodged a successful land claim that took 15 years to resolve. Thirty-four families chose to have their land returned and the rest were paid out. The resulting 7,546m of prime uncontested land was snatched up by Bantry Hills for R51-million at an auction two years ago. The company began work on a development "which will be unlike any other property in Cape Town".According to the company, it will consist of "60 uniquely designed apartments already being sold to international buyers, with an average value of R12-million".There will be four curved blocks, going as high as 11 floors, surrounding a green space and luxury facilities including heated swimming pools and a spa.But if Tavakoli has his way, nothing "unique" will emerge from this piece of land. Judge Patrick Gamble in the High Court in Cape Town has interdicted the developers from raising parts of the development above "the ground floor slab" pending an application lodged by Tavakoli to review the plans.Tavakoli owns three properties in the area, including a guesthouse. He accused the city of prioritising revenue over the interests of the community. Tavakoli said the development would result in increased traffic that would overburden the narrow streets in the area."My whole view is going to go," he told the Sunday Times this week."All three properties will lose their views. Even my tenants right now refuse to pay their rent ... they [the developers] are not selling one unit to the locals. They are advertised in Tel Aviv, New York and London. It doesn't do anything for anybody here." I have a sentimental attachment to that place but I wouldn't want to go back. Things have changed. It is no longer the same</blockquote>Tavakoli also slammed the government for allowing the sale of the land instead of assisting the evicted families to move back to Sea Point."This area is predominantly white Jewish. I am the only one that is not. If you start right here in Sea Point all the way to Llandudno you do not find one person of colour owning a house here. I challenge you to go and do it in the deeds office."What happened, in my opinion, was an opportunity for the government to establish a township for the people of colour so that they don't struggle."Meanwhile, the developers have barely passed the foundation stage and have already spent R56.8-million. They told the court that if the project were to be delayed for six months they would incur R26.1-million in contractors' standing time, escalation of building costs and finance charges. The review application is set down for February next year.</img>Leonard Lopes, who lost his childhood home in Sea Point, Cape Town. Image: ESA ALEXANDERLeonard Lopes, who lost his childhood home in Sea Point, Cape Town. Image: ESA ALEXANDERMike Flax, a Bantry Hills shareholder, told the Sunday Times that "views aren't a protected right in any constitution or any planning process".Flax denied that the apartments were being marketed overseas. "There has never been any advertising overseas, it is nonsense."He said the development complied with height restrictions in the area.Lopes, 71, is not interested in the debacle. Views are the last of his worries as he lives in Claremont - far from the sea.But the painful memory of being uprooted from his home as a boy is still vivid."It is inexplicable," said Lopes. "I was born there, I went to school there, I went to church there and the best years of my life, I lived them there. I have a sentimental attachment to that place but I wouldn't want to go back. Things have changed. It is no longer the same."Gamble noted that the "developers proudly proclaim the benefits of the deal, alleging in their promotional material that each beneficiary family evidently received more than R2-million from the proceeds of the sale".nombembep@sundaytimes.co.za