Other, lesser hotels, may crow about their proximity to the Waterfront (and crush of humanity) or the seafront (grinding traffic on anorexic roads).Me, I like a bit of elbow room and 15 on Orange, right next to the crisp lawns and tree-shaded paths in the Company's Garden and a short stroll from the varied attractions of Long Street, is - like my heart - in the right place.The hotel occupies the site of the old NG Kerk synod building, where church elders used to stay during their annual meetings in Cape Town.The hotel retains the original building's cement fa ade, in line with the city's directive that the architectural integrity of the historical buildings in Queen Victoria Street not be compromised.Hotel review: Protea Hotel, FranschhoekFive-star, retro-style at its best, which is to say the feel is more boutique hotel than over-stuffed pomposity. The airy lobby with its acres of glass sets the tone, letting in the fine light and offering a spectacular view of Lion's Head as you check in.The rooms are big but my suite was as vast as the Russian steppe, with a view of Table Mountain that would have made it otherwise unnecessary to do any sightseeing.Retro touches include hanging perspex bubble chairs - a style nod to Finnish designer Eero Aarnio's 1968 design, the chair that Playboy made famous (or was it the other way around?) - and retro swivel lounge chairs in which you could spend all day, turning from the mountain view to check out the acres of suite, then back to the mountain ... yep, still there.Friendly, unobtrusive and fast.I confess, I did not have time to have dinner at Savour, the hotel's fine-dining restaurant, where executive chef Sanel Esterhuyse has held court for the past few years. (In fact I was over the road at Societi Bistro, a Cape Town legend, and one of the hotel's own recommendations).Savour's repas is international so expect such delights as mussels and chorizo, seared beef carpaccio, chicken tikka masala, springbok loin and - because we are a seriously carnivorous bunch - lots of cuts of Chalmar beef. The wine list, like the suites, is vast. Hotel review: Knysna's Turbine Hotel & SpaCome, now, this is Cape Town. The Company's Garden is next door and the attractions of Long Street are within strolling distance. Don't want to leave the hotel? Well, the Suntra Spa awaits and there's a gym and a rooftop swimming pool from which the view is spectacular.If you like your days still and hot, March is best. Any time out-of-season rocks. I prefer the winters - there is nothing quite like a sunny Cape winter's day when the sea gleams in the light and there is not a breath of wind to roil the calm.Rates vary daily according to demand and room type. As Cape Town's high season has now officially begun, demand has soared. Rates start at R2,500 per night.E-mail reservations@15onorangehotel.com, phone 021-469-8000, or see marriott.com/hotels/travel/cptoh-african-pride-15-on-orange-hotel.Corner of Orange Street &amp; Grey's Pass, Gardens, Cape Town. Ash was a guest of African Pride 15 on Orange.