Afterwards the sheikh gave him a direct instruction."He looked at me and said: 'My son, I'm not asking you, I'm instructing you. You will form an organisation. The name will be the Gift of the Givers. You will serve all people of all races, religion and political affiliation. You will serve them unconditionally and without expecting anything in return,'" Sooliman said.And so he did, giving up his medical practice and dedicating himself to humanitarian work. Video shows Gift of Givers hospital after deadly airstrike in SyriaThis week, 24 years later, Sooliman was recognised for the work his organisation has done.At an event held in London on Friday night, he won the Global Citizen award.The judging panel included philanthropist Princess Firyal of Jordan, Pakistan explorer and artist Namira Salim and French politician Jo lle Garriaud-Maylam.The inaugural award last year went to German entrepreneur Harald H ppner, who founded the refugee aid project Sea Watch.The awards are hosted by Henley &amp; Partners, a global residence and citizenship planning company.It honours people who have made an extraordinary contribution to improving the global community.Speaking to the Sunday Times before he flew to London this week, Sooliman said the award was a big achievement for the continent."This is not only about me; Africa as a whole is being recognised. There is a perception that we cannot do anything for ourselves and are always asking for help from abroad."This is also a big achievement for the organisation. With this award, we are telling the world that here is a reliable organisation from Africa. Gift of the Givers hospital targeted Syria in air strike"This is a wonderful opportunity to showcase the continent and all that we can do. Being honoured with a prestigious award like this means we have the global stamp," Sooliman said.Since its inception in 1992, Gift of the Givers has raised more than $150-million (about R2.1-billion) in life-saving aid for 42 countries like Syria, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.It provides medical help, equipment, energy and protein supplements, food and water to millions of people each year.This week it was also instrumental in rescue operations following the flash floods in Johannesburg. It provided hot meals for 1000 people of Alexandra.Henley &amp; Partners group chairman Christian K lin said Sooliman's work was visionary and innovative."He has demonstrated extraordinary courage and commitment, and the work of his foundation has had a significant impact on the lives of the most vulnerable in our global community."I believe these are the most important reasons why our award committee has given this year's award to him."