South Africa's all-time top scorer, with 32 goals from 80 senior national team caps, learnt the ropes under Mashaba's wing in the junior national teams.McCarthy worked with the currently suspended Mashaba in the under-17s, -20s and -23s and when he became a full international.Mashaba was suspended by the South African Football Association bosses on Sunday for a "regrettable incident". The incident refers to Mashaba going into a tirade against Safa president Danny Jordaan in a move caught on national television.Bafana a bit bemused at Mashaba's suspensionIt followed Bafana's 2-1 defeat of Senegal in a crunch 2018 World Cup qualifier at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday. It was the first time South Africa had beaten Senegal in a competitive match.An enraged Mashaba snubbed SuperSport and had to be calmed down by SABC Sport anchor Kwena Moabelo and Safa communications department official Matlhomola Morake before doing the interview with the public broadcaster."It is sad to see him suspended. I know coach Shakes from my younger years. I came through the ranks under him," said McCarthy, who witnessed Mashaba's rage live in Polokwane."This is not the coach Shakes I know. I grew up playing for a very humble, nice guy who protects his players."What I saw on Saturday was a shadow of the man I know. He let personal feelings get the better of him."Asked how Safa must address the Mashaba matter McCarthy said: "That's why I'm glad I'm not Danny Jordaan. I have a lot of sentimental attachment to coach Shakes."The suspension for me is just to sugar-coat the situation and let things calm down a little bit."Mashaba's suspension meant he was barred from travelling with the team to Mozambique for an international friendly match on Monday. Bafana drew 1-1 with the Mambas at the Estadio Nacional do Zimpeto on Tuesday night. Assistant coach Owen da Gama took charge of the team and McCarthy says the players appeared to be affected by the absence of Mashaba."They didn't look like they wanted to be there. It seemed like they could not wait for the final whistle," said McCarthy.</img>Benni McCarthy has fond memories of Shakes Mashaba. Image: SuppliedBenni McCarthy has fond memories of Shakes Mashaba. Image: SuppliedIt is a sentiment supported by comments made by Da Gama after the match."From a psychological perspective it was difficult. We tried to psyche them up and say to the ones who did not play against Senegal that this is an opportunity for you."I was happy that we turned things around in the second half," Da Gama, who doubles up as coach of the under-23 national team, was quoted as saying by sister publication the Sowetan.Da Gama cautioned that a change in coaching personnel will affect Bafana's promising start to their quest to qualify for the Russia 2018 soccer spectacle."Continuity always favours whatever situation you are in. So we would hope for continuity and not change things a lot."If a new coach comes in, he could change everything and that could be more uncertain than continuity. We just have to wait and see what happens. We don't know what lies in store for us [the technical team] as well."Bafana are tied on four points in group D with Burkina Faso. The Stallions, held by SA last month, are at the top on better goal difference.