It wasn't a particularly convincing argument. South Africa arrived in the northern hemisphere having lost five of their past nine matches.That run has included defeats by Argentina, Ireland (a first on home soil), and, most painfully of all, a record 57-15 annihilation against New Zealand in Durban.Two more losses will make it their worst year in the professional era.They also began their tour without one of their leading lights, the rampaging No8 Duane Vermeulen, who was on the shortlist for the 2014 World Player of the Year.Coetzee cited fitness for his absence from the 33-man squad who will face England, Italy and Wales. How to beat the All Blacks: experts lay out strategiesIt is true that the 30-year-old suffered a knee injury which caused him to miss the Rugby Championship, but he has returned to play for Toulon and last week was named in the Top 14 team of the weekend.Another potential reason, denied by Coetzee, is that Vermeulen was prepared to voice his frustration at the state of South African rugby.The All Blacks mauling was the tipping point, but the decline has been longer in the making.Their last Rugby Championship title came in 2009 and Super Rugby was last won by a South African team in 2010. And that is before mentioning Japan and that historic defeat in last year's World Cup.That slump seems to have accelerated in the past 12 months and watching the All Blacks run in nine unopposed tries at Kings Park proved too much for Vermeulen."It was difficult to watch," he says."We played them a year ago in a World Cup semifinal and we lost by two points effectively to a Dan Carter dropped goal. One year later, to lose by 42 points shows there must be something wrong."When Vermeulen spoke out three weeks ago in an interview with South African journalist Craig Ray, he knew there would be consequences.As Will Carling discovered, unions do not take kindly to their own players pointing out their inadequacies, however glaring."You always get ex-players talking about the game," Vermeulen says. "You never hear current players say anything about the game but we are the guys who are really in there and see what is happening. You never hear current players say anything about the game but we are the guys who are really in there and see what is happening "Maybe I am the first active player to voice their opinion, but that is a good thing. I just wanted to stand up for the players. Other people feel that they cannot say anything."If that hinders my opportunity to be selected, then so be it. I stand by what I said. It is just giving people the facts of what is going on."There are myriad problems in South African rugby, but Vermeulen highlighted the lack of leadership from the top."The most important thing is that people should pull in the same direction," he says. "At the moment, it is just chaos. Everyone has their own agendas. That's my opinion. That's how I felt within the set-up."Vermeulen is particularly scornful of the ministry of sport, yet there are hindrances throughout the hierarchy, in particular in the contrasting styles to which Super Rugby franchises adhere. South Africa have frequently been caught between two stools this year.</img>Allister Coetzee, South Africa's national rugby team coach. Image: Siphiwe Sibeko / Reuters Allister Coetzee, South Africa's national rugby team coach. Image: Siphiwe Sibeko / Reuters "New Zealand are No1 in the world for a reason," Vermeulen says."Everyone plays the same style of rugby, from the franchises to the national team. The more time you spend in a certain game plan, the more confidence you get."The more confidence you get, the more you can develop your skill level. The big thing that stands out about South Africa is that we are not skilful enough. It is difficult to play three or four different patterns wherever you are and to combine that for two weeks for the national side."To that end, Brendan Venter, the former Saracens director of rugby, organised an "indaba" (conference of leaders) in which more than 50 people, ranging from Super Rugby chief executives to former captains and coaches, including Coetzee, gathered for two days. There are an estimated 350 South African professionals playing overseas, including a third of Coetzee's squad In the short term, it was agreed that Cheetahs head coach Franco Smith and JP Ferreira, the Lions' defence coach, should be added to Coetzee's coaching team for the tour of Europe; in the longer term, a greater spirit of collaboration and cooperation has been emphasised.How long that lasts remains to be seen.Bigger issues remain unsolved, particularly how to stem the exodus of players. There are an estimated 350 South African professionals playing overseas, including a third of Coetzee's squad.The falling value of the rand means that South Africans can effectively double their wages by moving to Europe or Japan. Gold Cup brings back with it essence of club rugbyMoney is only part of the equation, however, and Vermeulen is convinced more can be done to retain and recruit talent."There are 40 players who will take us into the next World Cup and SA Rugby should do as much as they can to get those 40 players, even if they are playing abroad, back and within the structure," he says.For all its supposed glitz and glamour, Super Rugby is also a long slog, spent mainly travelling to Japan, Argentina, New Zealand or Australia. A straightforward, albeit controversial, solution would be to align with the northern hemisphere club competition."It is definitely an option," says Vermeulen. "You might have more viewers. The other thing is that it is the same time zone, so there isn't a lot of travel. It is a night flight, the following morning you are here. It is a thing they can really look into."Vermeulen is both optimistic and pessimistic about the future."You are not going to turn the ship that quickly," he says. "Hopefully, guys will be pulling in the same direction. Everyone wants to lift the World Cup in 2019.I still would like to be a part of it. I spoke my mind. I took that chance. We'll have to see what happens."The Daily Telegraph, London