One Joburg establishment that s really embraced it even naming itself after it is The Grazing Room, which is the more relaxed, casual and social sister restaurant to the acclaimed DW Eleven-13 Restaurant.Chef de cuisine Jess McKinnon describes the restaurant as an invitation for guests to socially graze through a variety of carefully selected sharing plates, whether it s finger food like the zucchini, mint and lemon arancini, dishes cut into individual portions like oxtail in a steamed bun, or a shared bowl of smoked gnocchi. Social grazing has really elevated peasant-style street food to another level, she says. We speak to her to find out more.Restaurant review: EB Social Kitchen & Bar, JoburgWhy is social grazing gathering momentum as a food trend?It allows people to have more than one small plate of really great quality food at an incredibly reasonable price. People have also become a lot more adventurous when it comes to eating out and are willing to try more dishes, especially when they re out in a group. The social grazing style also fits into peoples lifestyles. For example, for a quick business lunch, a light supper, or an all-evening feast with a large group.What types of foods are best suited to sharing?The way we treat each dish makes it amenable to sharing rather than the type of food itself. Whenever we re planning a new dish, we think about how we can make it work when shared. We don t want our guests to spend too much time cutting and dividing the dishes at the table. Social grazing has really elevated peasant-style, street food to another level Besides shared dishes, what s the theme to your menu?Our upmarket street-style fare means we experiment with lots of flavours, from Asian, Mexican and American to European and South African. We ve even had a boerewors and chakalaka dish on the menu before Grazing Room style, of course.</img>The zucchini, mint and lemon arancini is served with tumeric mayo at The Grazing Room. Image: Supplied The zucchini, mint and lemon arancini is served with tumeric mayo at The Grazing Room. Image: Supplied What are a few of your favourite dishes?The beer-battered prawns are a simple dish that s elevated by the richness from the avocado and the sweetness of the chutney.The smoked gnocchi combines some of our favourite home-cooking ingredients of nuts, cheese and cream. It s like dressing up the best of mac and cheese with truffle oil.How often do you change your menu?Constantly, depending on what s seasonal and available. We also change the style of dishes depending on the season: heavier, heartier dishes will always feature on our menu during the cooler months, and for warmer months we ll lighten them up. This article is adapted from one originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.