Released on medical parole 17 months ago after serving 22 years as a co-conspirator in the assassination of SACP leader Chris Hani, Derby-Lewis died on Thursday.He was 80 and suffering from stage four lung cancer. He died in a Pretoria hospital from an infection following surgery, said his lawyer Julian Knight.His last days were "horrible", said his widow, Gaye, 77. When Derby-Lewis died the truth died with him: SACP"It's the first time I saw somebody die and it's just horrible and traumatic," she said.Gaye supported her husband staunchly during his incarceration, despite his involvement in one of South Africa's most heinous political murders.The SACP, which maintains that the full truth about Hani's murder in 1993 never emerged, is pushing for an investigation into whether Derby-Lewis told his wife more about it before he died.Hani's widow, Limpho, did not want to speak to the press, said SACP spokesman Alex Mashilo.Mashilo said that without full disclosure from Derby-Lewis about what really happened when Hani was killed, his family would never have closure.''Every time something is published about Comrade Chris Hani, it's a painful reminder to the family and it takes them back to the day of his assassination."Mashilo said the party believed Gaye knew more than she was letting on.''Her husband told her a secret ... this is highly problematic. We highly condemn it and strongly hope law enforcement will follow this up," he said.However, Gaye said this week that, contrary to some reports, her husband had not whispered a secret to her on his deathbed.''I spoke to Clive the night before he died. He squeezed my hand before he died and said something personal. I never said it was a secret, it's so ridiculous," she said.</img>The late Secretary General of the South African Communist Party Chris Hani in December 1991. Image: STR New / ReutersThe late Secretary General of the South African Communist Party Chris Hani in December 1991. Image: STR New / ReutersMashilo said the party would convene a central committee meeting next month, where a resolution would be proposed for an inquest into Hani's death.''The committee will decide if the minister of justice or the National Prosecuting Authority should be petitioned. We might even petition the president. We will see which legal route to follow," he said.Gaye said she wanted a private funeral, without the presence of the media. She planned to travel and possibly write a book about her husband.Derby-Lewis was released on medical parole in June last year, after several failed applications for parole.He was convicted in October 1993, along with Polish immigrant Janusz Walus, of conspiracy to commit murder.They were both sentenced to death for the killing, which Walus carried out in the driveway of Hani's home in Boksburg.The sentences were commuted to life imprisonment after the death penalty was abolished.Walus is still in jail, despite numerous applications to be released on parole.The Truth and Reconciliation Commission rejected amnesty bids by both men, saying they had failed to make full disclosure and had failed to show they had acted on political orders.