Much has been said and written about why comedians become comedians. The idea that some of the funniest people often have sad, even tragic, lives has been the subject of articles, studies and philosophies.Just how true this is will probably never be established, but Trevor Noah's memoir, Born a Crime, confirms the Mark Twain quote that "the secret source of humour is not joy but sorrow; there is no humour in heaven".While The Daily Show host's book is undoubtedly witty and sharp, it's also surprisingly harrowing in parts. Book extract: Trevor Noah's matric dance, a night to rememberNoah remains somewhat light-hearted when recalling some not-so-funny experiences, like one incident where he, his mother and baby brother were nearly kidnapped by a taxi driver late at night.One of the threads that runs through the book is economic hardship: whether it's about eating sawdust meat or dog bones with his family for supper, or living out of his mechanic stepfather's repair shop as a child. He describes which cars are the best to sleep in - American ones - since the cars awaiting repair were the closest thing to a bed Noah had.But perhaps it's better that Noah doesn't tell some of these tales as though they are unique and therefore exceptionally sad: after all, this is a common South African story (it's estimated that about seven million South Africans go to bed hungry each night).In that sense, Noah's story could almost be any average South African's.He's hustled on the streets of Alex, selling fake CDs and working as a loan shark."Hustling," he writes, "is to work what surfing the internet is to reading. If you add up how much you read in a year on the internet - tweets, Facebook posts, lists - you've read the equivalent of a s**t ton of books, but in fact you've read no books in a year ... It's maximal effort put into minimal gain. It's a hamster wheel."While he didn't grow up in the townships, he does understand them very well, having spent a lot of time there. He offers perceptive commentary on a township's effect on a person's mindset and ambitions: "The hood was strangely comforting, but comfort can be dangerous. Comfort provides a floor but also a ceiling ... The hood has a gravitational pull. It never leaves you behind, but it also never lets you leave."Like a lot of South Africans, he is familiar with crime. But the morality of it is not as clear cut as we might think. In all the times I received beatings from my mom, I was never scared of her ... The first time Abel hit me I felt something I had never felt before. I felt terror He writes: "In the hood, even if you're not a hardcore criminal, crime is in your life in some way or another. There are degrees of it. It's everyone, from the mom buying some food that fell off the back of a truck to feed her family, all the way up to the gangs selling military-grade weapons and hardware."He says crime does the one thing the government doesn't do: it cares. "Crime is grassroots. Crime looks for the young kids who need support and a lifting hand. Crime offers internship programmes and part-time jobs and opportunities for advancement ... Crime doesn't discriminate."Memoirs, by nature, are self-centred (some more than others, of course).But Noah's book is as much about sociopolitics and his mother as it is about himself. Nombuyiselo Noah's presence is heavy in the book - much of it reads like a love letter to her. In one passage, Noah talks about his mother teasing him when he started growing into his looks (and was no longer an "ugly" teenager), saying he was prettier than she was.He writes: "No son wants to talk about how hot his mom is. Because, truth be told, she was beautiful. Beautiful on the outside, beautiful on the inside. She had a self-confidence about her that I never possessed. Even working in the garden, dressed in overalls and covered in mud, you could see how attractive she was."</img>Trevor Noah with Steve Hofmeyr for the first South African Comedy Central Roast, with Hofmeyr the victim. Image: Simon MathebulaTrevor Noah with Steve Hofmeyr for the first South African Comedy Central Roast, with Hofmeyr the victim. Image: Simon MathebulaHe writes about the tough love she gave him - the hidings in particular. "My mom never gave me an inch. Anytime I got in trouble it was tough love, lectures, punishment and hidings. Every time. For every infraction."While the debate rages about whether spanking is a form of abuse, Noah often felt like physical punishment from his mother came from a place of love rather than cruelty.He quotes his mother as saying: "If I don't punish you, the world will punish you even worse. The world doesn't love you. If the police get you, the police don't love you. When I beat you, I'm trying to save you. When they beat you, they're trying to kill you."But his experience of punishment at the hands of his stepfather, a violent alcoholic named Abel who later shot Noah's mother in the head, was something else: "In all the times I received beatings from my mom, I was never scared of her ... The first time Abel hit me I felt something I had never felt before. I felt terror."Observing the relationship between his mother and Abel: "[He] wanted a traditional marriage with a traditional wife. For a long time I wondered why he ever married a woman like my mom in the first place, as she was the opposite of that in every way. If he wanted a woman to bow to him, there were plenty of girls back in Tzaneen being raised solely for that purpose."story_article_left2The traditional man wanted a woman to be subservient, but was attracted to independent women, Noah quotes his mother as saying. "He's like an exotic bird collector. He only wants a woman who is free because his dream is to put her in a cage."Noah also explores his relationship with his Swiss biological father (Born a Crime is a reference to his being born of racially mixed parents during apartheid).Noah lost contact with his father as a teenager and only reconnected with him when his mother insisted on it at age 24, when the comedian's career was taking off.He writes about craving his father's approval with such honesty and vulnerability that you want to give him a hug and tell him everything will be all right.Noah has built his career on selling himself as the everyman: the guy who can relate to different racial and social groups.While it hasn't always been believable, with Born a Crime he makes a convincing case: he's spent his life as an outsider.Clich d as it may be, Noah embodies the South African story that should be more common than it is: an awkward teenager who survived abuse; someone who couldn't afford university but went on to succeed beyond his wildest dreams. He embodies the tale we try to sell: that of triumph over adversity.