WHAT TO EXPECT FROM QATARI am travelling to the Far East via Qatar next year and was wondering if it is worth it to stop over there to visit that country. Would I need a visa? - John WilliamsonQatar is not the most prominent of the Persian Gulf states. The United Arab Emirates, which include Abu Dhabi and Dubai, get more tourists, but Qatar is still worth a visit.From the capital Doha, you can take desert safaris, go snorkelling or visit the extraordinary "Inland Sea" of Khor Al Udaid, about 80km south of the city on the border with Saudi Arabia.</img>The Museum of Islamic Art in Doha, Qatar. Image: iStockThe Museum of Islamic Art in Doha, Qatar. Image: iStockBuilt on a man-made island in the sea off the Doha waterfront or corniche, the Museum of Islamic Art is one of Doha's top attractions. It was opened in 2008 and displays arts and crafts, including glasswork and enamelled glass, metalwork, and over 800 manuscripts, from copies of the Qur'an from the 7th century to Ottoman works of the 19th century.It was the first of its kind in the Gulf and is open daily from 10am to 5pm, from noon on Thursdays, but closed Tuesdays and Fridays.The State Grand Mosque is also a highlight of Doha. Also known as the Abdul Wahhab Mosque, it was built in 2013 and is the largest in Qatar with 90 domes, 18 entrances and capacity for 30,000 people, but the interior is only accessible to Muslims.For shopping, head to the Villaggio Mall in the Aspire Zone in the west end of Doha. It has over 200 stores, including famous Western brands.Even if you don't want to shop it's worth a visit as the interior is themed as an Italian hill town, complete with a canal with gondolas - the Gondolania theme park. It has a roller coaster and an ice rink to help you cool off.For more traditional shopping go to the Al Wakrah Souk, which dates back to the 1750s. It has sections or souks for gold, spices, fabrics and even animals. The main walkway through it is lined with restaurants.Ask Andrew: Is it legal to travel with two passports?As for the question of visas, Qatar Airways and the Qatar Tourism Authority have a new transit-visa scheme, which allows passengers with layovers of five hours or more to request a complimentary transit visa.This will allow you entry to Qatar for up to 96 hours in between flights to or from Hamad International Airport. As you imply a short visit, this should suit you perfectly.However, if you wish to stay for longer you will have to apply for a visa.You can apply for the free transit visa through any of Qatar Airways' offices. You will have to have a confirmed ticket for a journey into Qatar, with a confirmed onward journey out of Qatar on a Qatar Airways-operated flight.The extended free stopover in Doha will not cost you any additional charges on your ticket, either on the outbound or inbound journey. Your passport will have to be valid for six months from the date of arrival in Qatar.For full details, go to qatarairways.com/transitvisa.CAR HIRE IN ITALYIs it true that one no longer needs an International Driver's Permit to hire a car, and that the South African driver's licence will suffice? - Sella RolandoThe Automobile Association advises that you take both your SA licence and the international licence they issue.You may only need the SA licence to hire a car, or show a traffic officer, but in the event of an accident your insurance may not pay out if you do not have the international one.Also, different car-hire companies seem to have different rules.A colleague who tried to hire a car in Greece recently with only the SA driver's licence was turned away by Avis but had success with Hertz. Best be on the safe side and carry both. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za.