What inspired you to become an architect?I grew up with an architect father and a mother who is a patron of the arts, so it is almost in my blood. It might sound contrived, but I believe this had a massive influence on me.I also feel one should have a positive impact on the world, and architecture is one of the few professions that gives you the opportunity to do so. As an architect, you can design a friendly space that will have a positive impact on many people.How would you describe your style?South African. The architecture that we produce is founded in South Africa. It is rich in texture but simple in form and without decoration. In my view this reflects the richness of our culture and how it works in unity to form an amazing country.Your favourite project?There are a number of amazing projects that we have completed, and others that will see the light soon. The work we are doing in the CBDs of Gauteng is exciting. Together with our clients we are making a difference to the people who use the buildings, as well as the people who interact with the changes we are making on street level.The ideal commission you'd love to get one day?A new building in an urban environment that can employ all the urban principles I believe in. Watch this space, we have almost completed one and, hopefully, more soon.A building you wish you'd designed?Weirdly enough, it is a small building that has very little impact on the environment around it - the Barcelona Pavilion by Mies van der Rohe. I have had the privilege of visiting it and the impact on me by such a small building was amazing.The fact that it could affect my perception of space and my physiological experience of the space was inspirational. It is a friendly, calming and awe-inspiring structure.</img>Kempton Place, designed by GASS Architecture Studios, is a large-scale project consisting of 469 residential dwelling units and 6,500m of retail space in Kempton Park, east of Johannesburg. The sculptures are by Francois Visser. Image: Supplied Kempton Place, designed by GASS Architecture Studios, is a large-scale project consisting of 469 residential dwelling units and 6,500m of retail space in Kempton Park, east of Johannesburg. The sculptures are by Francois Visser. Image: Supplied Can you describe your own dream home?A house that is a home; a home that enhances our lives. One that lives as a shelter but opens up to the outside. One that is a home but also a patio.You design furniture under the Goet brand. Is that an antidote to architecture, or do you find the design process complementary?I think it is complementary. Space is influenced by all elements that form and inhabit it. Designing furniture allows me to think of elements on a smaller scale and how different materials connect and work together.Architects you're inspired by?I have huge admiration for architects like Mies van der Rohe and lvaro Siza Vieira. I also follow the work of Marcio Kogan for his use of material and creation of space. The work of the Bjarke Ingels Group is inspirational for their ability to think outside the box.</img>Hillside House, designed by GASS Architecture Studios, is a family home built on the northern slopes of Stellenbosch s Helderberg mountains. It epitomises contemporary Cape winelands architecture. Image: Supplied Hillside House, designed by GASS Architecture Studios, is a family home built on the northern slopes of Stellenbosch s Helderberg mountains. It epitomises contemporary Cape winelands architecture. Image: SuppliedWhat are your passions outside of work?My family and cycling - for their ability to calm my brain and live in the moment.Tips for readers about to renovate or build?Trust your designer. Think about what you want to achieve, not only about the look but about how you want the end result to enhance your life.Visit Gass.co.za