Polish as much as you like, some things just don't shine. The bonnet of my granddad's tomato-red Mazda GLC 323 was like that.It remained stubbornly matte, obstinate to the persuasions of gloss. But this was how Mazzy was. She was my Ah Goung's secondhand road warrior for my growing-up years and had arrived with the dodgy paint job. But the lipstick-on-pigs thing was for other cars, like those outrageously purple ones of the 1990s that appeared like Barneys on our roads then went out of fashion with Y2K and the macarena. War zones, red tape & food poisoning: behind the wheel from SA to EuropeMy Ah Goung didn't mind that much about the bonnet. Mazzy served him well enough. By the mid-'90s, Mazzy mostly did a Sunday church route for Ah Goung and rested the other days of the week. Glaucoma had claimed more of Ah Goung's eyesight and he preferred using his senior citizen's freebie bus pass most days. At the same time we, his grandchildren, were teenagers with an itch to drive. Ah Goung obliged with Mazzy.By the time I got to drive Mazzy - after my elder sister and brother had a go - I was a community newspaper reporter covering everything from council meetings to cake-bake winners, and scouring mine dumps, joining the hunt for the Cleveland serial killer."Is that your car?" asked the policeman at one of the four stations I visited weekly for my crime beat."It's my granddad's," I replied, looking at Mazzy parked outside the cop-shop with her unpretentious faded red, and rust creeping into the edges of a once-shiny "Mazda" sign on her bumper."Well, you shouldn't park her outside at night," the cop said.I had covered enough crime stories to know crime was bad . But I thought about the precautions Ah Goung had already taken to protect his special girl. There was a thick link chain he'd padlocked to the brake that was meant to be wound up to the steering wheel and secured with a second padlock. There was a handbrake lock that my brother had helped Ah Goung install. It worked on a combination, "417", and if you didn't line up the numbers correctly, you couldn't release the handbrake. There was also the steering lock Ah Goung nagged me to use. Surely these measures were good enough to keep Mazzy from the paws of criminals?"Why shouldn't I park outside?" I ventured."Because the mosquitoes are going to puncture those Marie biscuit tyres," he said, cracking up.I rolled my eyes, I laughed a little too, but I loved Mazzy all the same. I learnt to know her quirks, when she was just too tired or temperamental. I knew her windscreen wipers needed just one good yank to start working. It meant I arrived at some jobs with a damp right side if I was caught in the rain. If it rained and I was on the road, I'd get to a set of lights, lean out the car and quickly coax the wipers into co-operation.I push-started her enough times and learnt to jolt her into action with jumper leads. I drove her without a clutch once and even left her overheated on the side of the road, accepting a lift from a stranger to go for help.But my friends and I took Mazzy to parties, movies and malls. I parked her outside clubs till the early hours and neither the criminals nor the mosquitoes got her.My Ah Goung died in 1997, taking some of my heart with him forever. His dear Mazzy outlasted him, but she too stuttered into old age. The day my mother sold her I couldn't be there. I couldn't look the buyer in the eye. He would have seen tears running down my face.</img>Ufrieda Ho with her grandad s Mazda. Image: Supplied Ufrieda Ho with her grandad s Mazda. Image: Supplied Firsts are strange, beautiful things - the first kiss, the first time you see snow fall from the sky and the first time you get behind the wheel of a car you call yours.There's something liberating about putting keys into an ignition, knowing the whir of the engine coming to life is also the sound of freedom to choose your own path.It's true even if your first car was a nightmare skorokoro that started only with a prayer and your hand on the choke, or was a hand-me-down from a great aunty who had a crochet dashboard cover to hide duct-taped cracks, or a coveted dream machine with vanity plates to tell the world you had arrived.A first-car love affair is a tale wrapped up in nostalgia, softened by time's forgiveness of your rage every time you push-started it and called it useless. And it's a story surrendered to that place in memory reserved for things that end in tender, inevitable parting. A first car is like a pet, it's sad to say goodbye. I knew best how to take care of her Lynee Hazell from Kensington, Johannesburg, remembers her first car - a powder-blue Golf she bought from a "little old lady".It was 1985 and Hazell, a young radiographer from the UK, had arrived on South African shores to take up a contract working at The Florence in Hillbrow."I used to take the bus and bum lifts," says Hazell, who is today a lecturer in radiography at the University of Johannesburg.When she saw the "for sale" ad in a newspaper and the specs and price looked right, she had to have a look. She dragged along a friend "who fixed everybody's cars"."We took the car out for a spin but after a few kilometres the lights stopped working. My friend assured me he could fix it and that it was a good deal, so for R3,000 I got my first car."Over weekends the commune housemates did treasure hunts driving to different places in the city collecting clues. After I got my car I got to be one of the drivers. I also remember the thrill of doing a proper shop, because before my car I only ever bought what I could carry onto the bus."Hazell admits she was a "car nerd", washing her car every week and decorating it with a teddy dangling from the rear-view mirror. She remembers, too, the frustration when her car did break down. And those lights that her friend tried to fix - they never stayed fixed for very long.Hazell loved her car anyway because "it was all mine". Years later she sold it because her boyfriend (now her husband, Roy) had the "more reliable" vehicle between them."A first car is like a pet, it's sad to say goodbye. I knew best how to take care of her," she says.</img>Lebohang Ntoagae with her Mini Cooper. Image: SuppliedLebohang Ntoagae with her Mini Cooper. Image: SuppliedLebohang Ntoagae's first car, David, was her dream car. Six years ago, when Ntoagae was 27, she was a rising young executive in corporate travel and fell in love with a cream-white convertible Mini Cooper."David for me is timeless, years from now he'll still be beautiful," says Ntoagae, who's still in the travel industry.She named her car after the wise king from the Bible. The name represented her own coming of age and the blessing of having earned a top-end luxury car.She loved David so much she founded the Mini Cooper Club Le-Mini-iYeza, meaning "the day (of the Mini) shall come" in 2013.It was a way for Mini Cooper owners to show off their cars but also to do good. They organised charity drives to display horsepower at its sexiest and do outreach and upliftment."Before David I used to get around in my mom's Citro n, but when I could afford David it was something special. I put stripes on him and I rebuilt his engine when he overheated on one of our charity drives," she says.Today she drives a luxury VW Beetle. But her soft spot is for David. She reveals that David has been sold to her sister but he's still parked in her Kensington garage.All hail the 10 most long-lived cars of all time"I'm really tempted to buy him back from her, and I probably will," she says, laughing.Retired racing car driver Batshobonke "Tschops" Sipuka's love of cars started early. He was about 10 when he took to getting behind the wheel of any car he could get his hands on to trundle down the pot-holed rural roads of Qumbu, Transkei.It was in 1998, when Sipuka was in his early twenties, that he got his start in professional racing; that was also the year he got his first car - a Fiji-green BMW 318."I was one of those boys who grew up loving cars and I knew that I wanted this BMW," he says. It took hard work and hard saving. Between finishing studies he worked at his family's butchery to raise money for the car.Eventually his parents added to his savings pot and on his birthday they presented the car to him."I remember everyone coming to see it and how proud I was of it because it was mine," he says.It was the car he drove to all his races as his racing career took off and as he started carving out a name for himself in motor sport."I drove that car to every race from PE to Cape Town to Johannesburg, so it was special. When I sold it seven and half years later it was pristine, because I really looked after it," says Sipuka, who is today a businessman in Port Elizabeth."I will say cars are still my vice. I think you must respect a car, but they don't blow my mind as they used to," he says.