I remember the day I first tasted whisky properly. Like so many "just curious" newcomers, I was at Whisky Live Festival, jealously eyeballing sophisticates knowledgably nosing their whisky before taking an educated sip.The first thing I learnt was that a whisky connoisseur will drink only from the proper glass - a copita. He/she will swirl it around almost absent-mindedly, fingers elegantly clasping the stem so as not to change the temperature of the golden liquid as it coats the glass.Roast pork with Irish whisky sauceThen he will hold it up to the light to take in the colours: "Amber, a hint of rosewood and look at the legs!" he'll exclaim. While I'm still trying to locate the impressive pair of legs among the fashionistas who descend on the Sandton Convention Centre, he has moved swiftly on to a key aspect of whisky appreciation: the nose. Experts tell us to enjoy whisky as we please: with ice or without; with a mixer or with water. Nosing, however, is very important.The first time I tried nosing, I stuck my nose deep into the glass and took a long, hard whiff. Spluttering and coughing ensued. It felt like I'd swallowed a spoonful of hot mustard.I have now learnt to be a little less enthusiastic and sniff gingerly just above the lip of the glass so as not to inhale the alcohol fumes but rather the scent of the whisky.The trick is to add a dash of water to release the flavours and dilute the alcohol. Open your mouth and breathe through both your nose and your mouth to involve your taste buds. South Africa's Mr Whisky, Pierre Meintjes, taught me this.Suddenly a dram of Bunnahabhain 12-year-old offered a stream of incredible fragrances that were previously unidentifiable.I was able to identify three distinct scents: orange marmalade on buttery toast; my grandmother's Christmas cake; and leather boot polish.I kept quiet about the boot polish and felt rather cheated when someone in the group piped up, "distinctly leathery" and was rewarded with knowing nods from the other discerning drinkers.</img>Whisky connoisseurs will drink only from the proper glass - a copita. Image: Getty ImagesWhisky connoisseurs will drink only from the proper glass - a copita. Image: Getty ImagesIt is entirely possible for whisky to smell like something you wouldn't fancy eating (fresh-cut grass or tropical vegetation, for example) because there will be other more traditionally appealing layers of scent to it, such as vanilla pods or honey nougat.That night, I grew bolder and approached as many kilted gentlemen and suited experts as possible, asking each connoisseur to teach me how to get the most from the whisky they were pouring.They answered with myriad instructions and questions: hold the whisky in your mouth long enough to coat it properly; look for the mouthfeel - is it chewy? Drying? Oily? Mouthwatering? Where does the flavour really hit you - the centre of your tongue? Or the back of your palate? What flavours can you identify - is it bold or spicy? Smoky and heavy or fresh and fruity?And so began a lifelong love affair with whisky; a bold, multi-faceted, complex liquid that attracts passionate people who love to tell stories.47 026 - Number of bottles of whisky consumed by South Africans in 20155 - South Africa's position on the list of the world's largest export markets for Scotch whisky by volume (France, the US, Spain and Mexico are in positions one to four)32% - The growth percentage of South African whisky drinkers over the past six years4.1 million - Number of South Africans who drink whisky as their spirit of choice (3.3million drink brandy)36 - The average age of the South African whisky drinkerMeet whisky experts and taste a selection from more than 200 whiskies, including many new releases, all under one roof.The Whisky Live Festival (the largest whisky festival in the world) is at the Sandton Convention Centre in Joburg from November 9 to 11.Tickets from R220 (including vouchers, a tasting glass and handbook) from ticketpros.co.za.For more information, visit whiskylive.co.za