While the last series win was in a different format, the Proteas will be confident going into a tour against the same opponents and should feel bullish after their successful past two Test series in Australia.Touring Australia is a fantastic experience. There s a strong cricket culture in the country and there will be a lot of hype around the Test series. It s great to be part of a Test series there, but it comes with quite a few challenges. Australian players enjoy the energy from their home crowds and it shows on the field.Australia was where I made my debut for the Proteas. It can be an intimidating place when you re starting out in international cricket. There are big stadiums where the crowds support the home side intensely. It will be interesting to see how some of the younger players in the squad respond to that environment.The three Test venues to be used in this series are quite different from each other, so adapting to the varying conditions will be important.The series starts in Perth, which traditionally has had plenty of pace and bounce in the wicket certainly when we played there in the 1990s. However, this has changed in recent times and the bounce will now depend on how much grass is left on the wicket.The next Test is in Hobart, which is different from Perth in many ways. It s a smaller venue and the wicket is usually fairly low and slow. It can also get pretty cold there with a strong sea breeze, so you re often battling the conditions.The series ends in Adelaide, which is a fantastic Test match venue with a rich history and a real sense of celebration for every Test match played there. While a day-night match will provide a different set of challenges, the Adelaide Oval usually offers something for the batsmen, seamers and spinners throughout the course of the game.On the subject of day-night Tests, it s great that the International Cricket Council is looking at ways to keep the game entertaining. While many purist fans still want to be emotionally involved for the full duration of a Test match, we know that the five-day game is still under threat and cricketing bodies have to be creative to keep up the interest.Back to this upcoming series: the Proteas should go into it with great confidence, carrying over from their form at home. On the reverse side, Australia will be pumped up after losing their last Test series in Sri Lanka and looking to show to their fans that they are still a formidable side.I'm sure the Aussies will come back strong, especially with a few of their top bowlers back from injury. The Proteas should be well equipped for that backlash. They know how to win in Australia and will not be intimidated by the hype around the series. The senior players will have to take a strong lead in understanding the Australian way while over there.The Proteas go into this series with the upper hand when it comes to momentum. If they build on that by playing the kind of cricket we know they can play, and by putting pressure on the opposition whenever they can, then they ll have a great chance of winning this series.This article was paid for by Levergy.