OLD RESIDENCE PERMITS, NEW PASSPORTSI had the same problem as Lynne Joffe (Ask Andrew, October 30).As from April 2015, Home Affairs no longer puts residence permits in passports. I visited three Home Affairs offices before someone told me this. They want you to carry your original immigration permit with you, even if it is 50 years old and in tatters.The best option is to take your expired passport with the permit in it with you and a certified copy of the immigration permit.Your South African identity document will also assist.Even the Home Affairs official called the new rules "stupid". - Jock FergusAsk Andrew: Is it legal to travel with two passports?A number of readers, including Mrs Johan Ingram, Dave and Maureen Keeling, Regina Falkenberg, Jane Fearnhead, Tim Leavey and Dr Martin Bridgeman, have kindly written with similar explanations and advice for someone with a permanent residence permit in this country who plans to travel abroad. Passports are no longer stamped with residence permits.You are advised to travel with your original residence permit, plus your identity book and passport.You are also advised to make many certified copies of your original document, for safety, but still travel with the original.The original document may not be required. A valid passport and ID can be sufficient, say some readers, but take it just in case. One reader had a certified copy accepted at passport control; others were not asked at all.WHAT DOES BREXIT MEAN FOR BRITS IN SA?Please tell me what effect the Brexit vote has on British-passport holders, say, in South Africa. Will we need visas for European countries? - Marion CrawfordI cannot answer that now as the exact terms of Brexit will only be negotiated in the two years after it has been triggered, and even that has yet to happen. One of the things to be negotiated will be the free movement of people that Europeans have become used to for decades. Of course, many Britons would like to keep that, but it was precisely the free movement of people, even refugees, once they are within Europe, that was one of the things that influenced those who voted to vote to leave the European Union.Tourism will suffer until government changes rules: Airline bossBABES FROM THE USAWe are expecting my sister-in-law with my cousin from the United States of America - both US citizens - and are not sure if the child's birth certificate will be adequate for our immigration rules. The birth certificate shows both parents' names but does not say "unabridged" as a heading. - Mariette BarnardThere is no uniform birth certificate in the US as the state that registered the child's birth will have issued one. All states are different - some issue a cheaper, abstract copy for use in the US.This informational certificate can be used to prove that someone was born in a state, city or county and is usually used in genealogy or family history but not for legal reasons. The abstract copy is not embossed and you would want the embossed, raised and sealed copy for official purposes.This official certificate carries the names of the child's mother and father, so it would meet the requirements of our Home Affairs department when entering the country.