Several local retailers are offering specials in an attempt to cash in on the hype around this US tradition, in which stores slash prices the day after Thanksgiving. It seems South Africans are equally keen to buy into the tradition. Last year Absa reported that card spend increased by 81% on Black Friday compared to the average day throughout the year, and by 40% on Cyber Monday."Those who stand to get the most out of Black Friday - apart from the retailers, of course - are targeted, focused consumers who are after a specific product, know what it normally sells for, find it on sale at a massively reduced price and go out to buy it, ignoring all the other 'specials'," says Wendy Knowler, consumer journalist for The Times."Those who get swept up in the hype could well find themselves with not quite the bargain they thought they were getting," she cautions.Read her tips on how to get the most out of Black Friday. WATCH a flood of customers rush into the Checkers at Greenacres Shopping Centre in Port Elizabeth: </img>Black Friday bargain hunters in front of the iStore at Menlyn, waiting for it to open on 25 November 2016. Image: Boikhutso Ntsoko Black Friday bargain hunters in front of the iStore at Menlyn, waiting for it to open on 25 November 2016. Image: Boikhutso Ntsoko </img>Black Friday shopping took it out of some bargain hunters at the Pavillion shopping centre in Durban. Image: Facebook/Sherwyn Esbend Black Friday shopping took it out of some bargain hunters at the Pavillion shopping centre in Durban. Image: Facebook/Sherwyn Esbend</img>Black Friday shoppers lining up at Baywest Mall Checkers in Port Elizabeth on 25 November 2016. Image: Deneesha Pillay Black Friday shoppers lining up at Baywest Mall Checkers in Port Elizabeth on 25 November 2016. Image: Deneesha Pillay</img>Queues forming at the Checkers at Mall of Africa in Johannesburg for the Black Friday sales. Image: Abigail Javier Queues forming at the Checkers at Mall of Africa in Johannesburg for the Black Friday sales. Image: Abigail Javier </img>A customer has three TVs in her trolley at Game, Rosebank, Johannesburg, as Black Friday shopping gets underway. Image: Roxanne Henderson A customer has three TVs in her trolley at Game, Rosebank, Johannesburg, as Black Friday shopping gets underway. Image: Roxanne Henderson Watch: Shops lambasted for not doing #BlackFriday </img>The Black Friday queue to Checkers Hyper in Eastgate, Johannesburg. Image: Penwell Dlamini The Black Friday queue to Checkers Hyper in Eastgate, Johannesburg. Image: Penwell Dlamini </img>Customers shoving each other at Baywest Mall Checkers in Port Elizabeth on 25 November 2016 during the Black Friday sales. Image: Deneesha Pillay Customers shoving each other at Baywest Mall Checkers in Port Elizabeth on 25 November 2016 during the Black Friday sales. Image: Deneesha Pillay</img>Shoppers stand in a queue during Black Friday sales in East Londen. Image: Phumza Sokana Shoppers stand in a queue during Black Friday sales in East Londen. Image: Phumza Sokana </img>Bargain hunters at a Sneaker store in Canal Walk, Cape Town. Image: Esa Alexander Bargain hunters at a Sneaker store in Canal Walk, Cape Town. Image: Esa Alexander