How did you get into design?My passion for design started with my first boss, who threw me in at the deep end and told me to swim with a rooftop project that was over 1,000m . I looked at it for a week and did nothing because I was so overwhelmed by the size.Slowly but surely I gained a little confidence and got through it, section by section. I was only 23 then and have not stopped designing since. It was a natural progression for me to become an interior architect. Meet the Makers: Liani & Jan Douglas of Douglas & CompanyHow does your design process work?Pen and paper help me get my thoughts and ideas down. I love taking the idea I have in my head, exploring it on paper, building a 3D model, then 3D printing it. The best part is creating a life-size prototype - it's like watching a kid grow, and then being super proud when it's done!It seems all your pieces are functional. Is that part of your ethos?Absolutely! Flaunt's mantra is "Furniture is the form of functional art". Design first, followed by functionality and aesthetics. Last but not least, I indulge in the details.How does living in Joburg influence your design?When I started the design process for Flaunt, I had just moved into an 80m apartment and noticed there was an influx of people moving into apartments rather than houses. Then I realised all the enticing products in design magazines were imports and I would need to sell a kidney to afford just one of them.I started to imagine creating local products that were simple and unique, and on a par with international designers, without the high price tag. I went on to create a product range for locals. The richness of the city's cultures influence and inspire my designs.</img>Orchid conversation bench by Flaunt Concepts. Image: Lauren Mulligan Orchid conversation bench by Flaunt Concepts. Image: Lauren Mulligan How do you ensure the materials you use are sustainable?I research and ask a lot of questions. I'm always looking for products that work with Flaunt's sustainability policy. I check and control as much of the carbon footprint as I can, and we always find ways to reuse the materials we waste. I have four manufacturers who all have a very specific brief about being sustainable.Three famous people you'd love to own one of your pieces?Locally Dion Chang. Internationally Zaha Hadid (although she has passed away, she'll always be a legend in my books) and Karim Rashid.Which city is the ultimate design destination for you?I'm always indecisive about this. Stockholm and Copenhagen, or Milan ...</img>Nostalgic telephone bench by Flaunt Concepts. Image: Lauren Mulligan Nostalgic telephone bench by Flaunt Concepts. Image: Lauren MulliganA trend you love?Afrofuturism.A trend you hate?Kitsch opulence and excess. Like Jersey Shore meets ornate furniture.What's on your bedside table?A copper lamp from local designer The Artisan, a box of tissues, and an iPad for sketching or reading.The importance of buying local design?Flaunt is a local product, founded in the City of Gold. I love that my brand has international potential, but is local. Knowing this, it's important to me to support other local designers. We all support each other and contribute to the economy's growth.South Africa is just as great as any other country in the world. We are also unique and rich in culture, and this influences the design for every local designer. Whoever said "Local is lekker" wasn't kidding.For more, follow Flaunt on Facebook.