Within the industry, however, it's taken for granted that handsets will keep getting more powerful, thinner, longer-lasting and more intelligent.But between these two perspectives lies a massive challenge for smartphone makers. Because their devices now incorporate so much functionality, taking over the roles of cameras and gaming machines, among others, they have to develop design and innovation capacity in numerous areas.For smaller manufacturers, it's impossible to achieve the necessary level of expertise across all functions, and they tend to build in components from specialist companies that provide them off the shelf. This is the prime reason so many smartphones today are almost indistinguishable. Carmakers have to talk tech, not greased lightningFor larger brands, that is clearly not an option. They are fighting a massive war for attention, and their flagship devices live or die by differentiation. Yes, they are turning to the specialists to solve this problem.But, unlike those relying on off-the-shelf technology, the major brands are now working closely with the suppliers to give their technology and design expertise a new trajectory.It was seen in Samsung's collaboration with virtual reality leaders Oculus Rift to raise the performance level of its Gear VR headset. LG collaborated with Bang &amp; Olufsen to build a speaker module for its G5 smartphone earlier this year.More recently, Lenovo brought in Hasselblad and JBL to build the camera and speaker add-on "mods" for its Moto Z smartphones.Now, the lid has been lifted on one of the most ambitious approaches yet to this strategy.Huawei, the world's third-biggest smartphone maker after Samsung and Apple, has chosen this route to cement its positioning and muscle its way up the rankings.At last week's Munich launch of its new Mate 9 smartphone, Huawei startled the industry with both a massive 5.9-inch display and what is probably the most advanced camera yet seen on a smartphone. It worked closely with camera maker Leica to bring its phone camera as close to professional quality as possible. Young, business-savvy hackers corner ransom marketHuawei had also worked with Leica on the optics of its 5.2-inch flagship phone, the P9, launched eight months ago.The Mate 9 reveals just how far that partnership has come in such a short time. It carries two lenses, one with a 12 megapixel colour sensor, and the other with a 20 megapixel monochrome sensor.The two sensors use image-fusion technology to combine two simultaneous image captures into one photo, delivering images of astonishing quality."Our engineering people have had to discuss what photography stands for," said Richard Yu, CEO of Huawei Consumer Business Group. "The result is a new standard for monochrome and low-light photography. Most smartphone photos are taken in a low-light environment, but most cameras are geared towards normal light."Huawei also worked with the Porsche Design team to produce a special edition of the Mate 9, with a smaller display, rounded edges and Porsche branding.Porsche may not have Leica's smartphone innovation, but it cements the strategy of innovation through partnership.Goldstuck is the founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @art2gee