That s former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke view. Moseneke was speaking in Durban at a publicity function for his book My Own Liberator and in conversation with Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe at Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre this week. Moseneke said: Ordinarily, the law doesn t allow you to be an [arbiter] in your own course, it s an old-time principle. In State of Capture, her final report in office, former public protector Thuli Madonsela recommended Zuma appoint a commission of inquiry headed by a judge chosen by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. She also ordered that such an inquiry be adequately funded by the Treasury.Madonsela said the said judge can appoint the commission s staff and the inquiry would have powers of evidence collection equal to those of the public protector.Hawks gun for Jonas, Zweli, GwedeThe inquiry should complete its work and present its report to the president within 180 days, which would be around May 2017.However, Moseneke said the law was clear on who appoints commissions of inquiry. Those powers reside with the president. May that power be delegated to somebody else? We debated this matter at length in the Saru [South African Rugby Union] judgment about whether the president could voluntarily say minister Radebe must appoint the commission, it s an open question and open to debate, he said.Moseneke also made reference to a similar debate when Zuma was asked to establish a commission of inquiry to investigate the arms deal in which he was implicated. Whether the president is the person to appoint such a commission, the question must arise as to who should then appoint the commission to investigate the president. It s an open legal question. It is an interesting area of law which I will leave there, [and] leave it for lawyers to think about, he added. On the question of whether or not Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan should have complied with the summons from the national director of public prosecutions, Moseneke said anyone who is subpoenaed should appear in court. Of course, you have a right to remain silent. But once you are subpoenaed, you must appear. But a few days before you appear they withdraw the charge, well it s another story, he quipped.Ex-driver blows lid off Gupta visitor listMoseneke fended off accusations that, had he been an ANC member and appointed chief justice, his book would have been different. I don t think there would have a difference frankly, said the former deputy president of the Pan Africanist Congress. The difference between the ANC and the PAC is mainly historic quite frankly, that s why I was comfortable working under the ANC government running elections and becoming deputy chief justice, he explained.Moseneke admitted he wanted to be chief justice and that Zuma had three opportunities to appoint him, but he did not. After Justice Pius Langa; Yes, I wish ... I were chief justice. It would have be a wonderful fairy tale sort of end to my career. The president has a prerogative [to appoint the chief justice]. He did not appoint me, not once, not twice, but three times. He did not. I accepted it, you all know. It made me a better judge, I think I put my head down and made some of the best judgments. It s part of the story [book], sometimes you sit there and you may not get what you want and you accept it. I really wanted to be chief justice, don t be fooled by that, when it did not happen I knew I was there to serve my people, he said.