The Slow Food movement has members in countries around the globe, including South Africa. It aims to ensure that the world's culinary traditions aren't lost and to encourage people to eat quality, seasonal, healthy foods which are produced in an environmentally conscious and fair way.Hilary Biller attended the Salone del Gusto and picked up some tips to think about the next time you fill up your trolley with groceries.Slow Food says: Meat consumption is reaching increasingly unsustainable levels and the environmental costs of such an unbalanced diet are enormous. Producing one kilogram of beef using industrial farming systems release on average 36,4 kg of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and require around 15,500 litres of water and 7kg of plant-based feed.How to be a more eco-conscious shopper: Eat less meat, of better quality, from farms that care about the welfare of their animals and the quality of their diet. Choose local breeds. Buy the lesser-known cuts of meat to help prevent waste.The Slow Food movement has officially launched in SA Slow Food says: Imported prawns may come from the tropics where they are fished intensively. Stocks are close to the maximum limit of exploitation and the techniques used to catch them are devastating to the environment. Vast swathes of mangrove forest are destroyed every year to make way for prawn and shrimp farms with serious consequences for the environment and small scale fishers.How to be a more eco-conscious shopper: Ensure the prawns you buy are locally-sourced. If these aren t available, select locally-sourced alternatives like langoustines, crabs and other crustaceans.Slow Food says: Globally the banana industry is controlled by five multinationals that grow the fruit on huge plantations using massive amounts of pesticides, synthetic fertilisers and fungicides, often exploiting local labourers. The market is dominated by just one variety, Cavendish, while many others that grow better is different areas are ignored.How to be a more eco-conscious shopper: When buying bananas and other fruit choose organic which offer better guarantees of environmental and social sustainability.Slow Food says: Is an industrially-produced snack or cold drink full of sugar really the best option? With their high quantities of corn syrup additives and artificial colourants they're one of the principle causes of obesity. The majority of industrially-produced snacks and drinks are made using palm oil for which enormous areas of rainforests are destroyed each year.How to be a more eco-conscious shopper: Think about the ways you can substitute such products with healthier, tastier snacks like freshly made juice and homemade smoothies. Encourage children to drink water instead of cold drinks. 13 cost-savvy ideas to make the most of leftoversSlow Food says: Remember that every time you fill your trolley, you're also filling your dustbin. The figures for global food waste are shocking yet millions of people suffer from hunger and malnutrition.How to be a more eco-conscious shopper: Pay closer attention to what you buy and buy just enough of what you need. Choose seasonal and local produce rather than imported products. Buy directly from the producers by shopping at markets. Learn how to use leftovers. Take your own reusable bags to the shops so you don t need to purchase plastic ones.