Racism has again sullied a South African tour of Australia, with Hashim Amla singled out for abuse this time. Hashim Amla terrorist, is the message believed to have been written on a fence near the South African team s dugout at Bellerive Oval in Hobart on Saturday, the first day of the second test.Cricket Australia (CA) said a 24-year-old man suspected of committing the act had been banned from attending any official match in Australia for three years and had been summoned to appear in court. Tasmania Police identified the person of interest through CCTV and witnesses in the area, A CA spokesperson told reporters. CA takes a zero-tolerance approach to anti-social behaviour at any of our matches, which includes racial vilification."Our message to any fan attending a match is that if you display anti-social behaviour you will be removed and risk being banned from any cricket match across Australia, as well as police action being taken. The South Africans seem to have been satisfied that sufficient action has been taken. We have been informed that the man has been formally charged and has been handed a three-year ban from the stadium, team manager Mohammed Moosajee said. From our point of view it is disappointing and disconcerting because this is not the first act of racial vilification we have received while touring Australia over the years. It is unacceptable. There is absolutely no place for racial stereotyping and such offensive acts in society, let alone in sport. We thank CA and the authorities for dealing with the matter in a swift, professional and stern way and for carrying out the full might of the law. The incident is the latest in a list of racial run-ins South Africans have had with Australians.Former South African fast bowler Makhaya Ntini complained of racist abuse from the crowd at the WACA in Perth in December 2005.In August 2006 former Australian batsman Dean Jones called Amla a terrorist while he thought he was off-air while working as a television commentator during South Africa s tour to Sri Lanka. Jones was fired.On South Africa s last tour to Australia in 2012-13, former batsman Greg Ritchie made told Islamophobic and racist jokes in a speech at the Gabba to members of the Brisbane Cricket Ground.Exposure of Ritchie s racism in the press cost him his public speaking career.