Several motorists hissed as if they were ready to blow a gasket as tweets poured in from Boksburg to Cape Town Durban to Pretoria.There was scorn disbelief anger and pleas for help frequently accompanied by the word nightmare .Heavy rain accompanied by flash floods exacerbated the problem in Johannesburg. PortiaSylvester ( @PorchiePorch) summed things up in 12 words:So no traffic lights working this morning. Joburg is a mess SHEM! Will there ever be a time where ALL traffic lights work in this city? @TrafficSA @MyJRA Malibongwe &amp; Witkoppen is a nightmare traffic lights off. @CityofCT Traffic lights @ #Voortrekker &amp; #Halt Rds in #Goodwood r short timing &amp; causing traffic jams. The tweets and levels of frustration were trending along with the latest news of flooding in Johannesburg and the death of Leonard Cohen.For those motorists who came close to blowing a fuse on the morning commute here are some tips from the Automobile Association on dealing with road rage. Don t shout they can t hear youYour fellow drivers cannot hear you when you shout at them so why get yourself worked up for an audience of none?Parents pass on their road manners to back-seat kids SleepFatigue can make you irritable and angry. On average you should be getting eight hours of sleep every night. Apart from making you irritable a lack of sleep can also make you dangerous behind the wheel. If you are not entirely alert and in control you should not be driving. Slow downSpeeding changing lanes and flashing your lights won t get you where you want to go before everyone else but it will make your more hostile and impatient. Slow down and get to your destination safely. Listen to relaxing musicAs much as it may be difficult to prove that fast-paced or aggressive music makes for aggressive drivers soothing music will calm you. Put on music that relaxes you. Take a break breatheMonitor your mood. If you start feeling tense or angry relax your grip on the wheel sit back and focus on breathing deeply. If necessary pull over where it is safe to do so and breathe deeply until you have calmed down. Be a compassionate driverDon t take it personally when other drivers pull in front of you hog the fast lane or speed across an amber traffic light. Remember just like you people make mistakes. Reduce stress by planningPlan ahead to avoid stressful situations. Give yourself enough time to get to work in the morning without rushing and try as far as possible to avoid the worst of the day s traffic by planning your routes and departure times carefully. Leaving home 15 or 20 minutes earlier or later can make a huge difference to the amount of traffic you may encounter.'Once-in-a-century storm' hits Joburg Be courteous it s a two-way streetHow many times have you been allowed to pull out of a driveway or merge into a lane because another driver was kind enough to let you through? Be courteous and kind to other motorists. Avoid confrontationIf another driver calls you out on something you did wrong on the road apologise. If you have something to say to another driver who has made you angry rather don t say anything at all. You don t know them and you probably won t ever see them again so what s the point? Keep your hands on the wheel and your eyes on the road. Keep calm after an accidentAccidents or even a bumper bashing can be very stressful for everyone involved. Try to stay calm and focus on following the steps outlined in this beginner s guide to dealing with an accident scene. Download the AA Rescue App to your smartphone. In case of an emergency simply click on the Rescue Me button &amp; we will contact you and make sure you get the help you need - whether it is an ambulance the police or a breakdown service.