For the past 14 years, Aya's mother has been employed by Devon's family as a domestic worker.Their set-up is hardly unusual: according to psychologists who presented papers recently at a conference in Cape Town, the phenomenon of domestic workers' children being absorbed into the - usually white - families they work for has mushroomed since apartheid fell.Irene Chait, a psychologist and the chairwoman of the South African Psychoanalytic Confederation, said: "This is often undertaken with the best intentions of offering the child better opportunities in terms of schooling, living conditions and material possessions , and it can work well when there are clear boundaries."However, she said, "problems being presented at clinics to psychologists are often around the time of adolescence when behavioural problems" might kick in. Give your little one more snuggles, not more screensShe said that in adolescence, identity and the need to grow up and be independent became important; being part of two families made that difficult for some youngsters.Living with both families sometimes meant "not knowing where [she or he] belongs, which results in confusion, anger and resistance".The situation can be overlaid with frustration on the part of the domestic worker, and guilt and a sense of power on the part of the employer.However, when clear boundaries are in place, these difficult situations can be avoided - and families and other structures, such as the child's school, can play a role.Aya's mother, Patiswa Dlaku, who works for Debbie Coombe and her family - which includes Devon's older sister and brother - said: "I am very happy that Aya is so close to Debbie's family. She got confused when she was little about who her real mom is, but now she understands."And they have helped her a lot - they pay her school fees, took her to extra maths, ballet ... Aya is very open with them and loves them, but she also knows I am her mom."Coombe said the children' s school played a role in establishing boundaries when it came to language, too."Aya was in daycare down the road when she was little. When she got to primary school, I wanted her to be at the same school as my kids. A good education was forefront in my mind. I always knew who my mother was - she always made that clear to me. My mom's employers didn't override my mom and dad "And right from the beginning, the school made it clear: Aya must speak English with my family but Xhosa with her mom. We must keep the two languages going," said Coombe.Reports of less healthy situations arise when boundaries have been blurred.Psychologist Nondwe Mange, who researched this issue just after the end of apartheid, predicted that counselling services would see more of these cases emerge as the phenomenon of this living arrangement grew.In one case she reported on, an eight-year-old boy whose mother worked for a bachelor, was moved from a township school to a mainly white suburban school.Soon, "aggressive behaviour and inability to play with other children" was noted in the boy.</img>03 November 2016. Nthabeleng Nhlapo whom her mother was a leave inn domestic worker. She the became part of the family of her moms bosses. Pic: Simphiwe Nkwali. Sunday Times. Image: Simphiwe Nkwali / Sunday Times 03 November 2016. Nthabeleng Nhlapo whom her mother was a leave inn domestic worker. She the became part of the family of her moms bosses. Pic: Simphiwe Nkwali. Sunday Times. Image: Simphiwe Nkwali / Sunday Times It was found that the employer's disparaging treatment of his domestic worker had rubbed off on her son.When asked to draw the family, he left his mother out of the picture, saying: "She is busy in the kitchen preparing food for us." This, said Mange, showed that he viewed his mother merely as someone who was there to serve.Nthabeleng Nhlapo, 34, who grew up knitted into the white family where her mother worked, said it was also up to the domestic worker to play a more active role."I am sure there are white families who take the helper's child in and instil in that child a sense of him or her being their own child. But the helper ... has to be strong in her nature to make sure this doesn't happen."She should not be passive by allowing her employer to assume the parental role ... It is up to her to keep her power as the mom of that child."Chait said if problems arose in adolescence, the worst thing to do is send the child "home" (usually to a granny far away) rather than try to work through the problems. Mother tongue and sister love Nthabeleng Nhlapo, 34, is grateful to her mother for preserving their mother tongue: "I always knew who my mother was - she always made that clear to me. My mom's employers didn't override my mom and dad. Being exposed to English from an early age meant my pronunciation and articulation were far better than if I hadn't been. That was a benefit - and at first it was my first language. But then, my mom made a conscious decision to change that. So, I never lost my own language." Aya Dlaku, 11, is enjoying having "an older sister": "I don't really have a dad and now I kind of have two moms and that is special for me. I am close to both. I sometimes also go on holiday with them, and sometimes I go to Eastern Cape with my mom. Everybody there is nice to me too. I like Savannah a lot because I haven't had an experience of having an older sister. She is seven years older than I." Tanya Farber, writer of the report above, grew up with the daughter of her family's domestic worker. "During apartheid, it was something you had to hide. When the police used to come around and check, my older sisters and I had to hide our 'younger sister' in the bathroom with us so that the police didn't find her. Before the schools opened to all races, the nursery school my sisters and I had attended took my 'younger sister' in. But they were too scared to put her name on the register or include her in the school photograph. We are still very close to this day, and only as we have got older do we understand more about the dynamics that were at play in the situation. Back then we were just sisters."farbert@sundaytimes.co.za