Its decision to affirm the country s credit rating in June at BBB- the lowest investment-grade level was supported by the impetus from government to implement reforms in order to stimulate growth Gardner Rusike associate director for global ratings said on Thursday. Since then we have seen little progress on the things government said they would like to do. For us to continue affirming the ratings it is important that we see government doing what they should be doing on the economic reforms which would give us comfort that the risks can change Rusike said.S&amp;P would like to see government issue a progress report to indicate how the economic growth outlook has improved in the medium term and business confidence had increased Rusike said.Slow economic growth other than harming SA s wealth levels which had declined in dollar terms also had implications for the fiscal trajectory.The revenue gap had widened since February as tax revenues were linked to the performance of the economy Rusike said. National Treasury widened its budget deficit forecast to 3.4% of GDP in October s mid-term budget from the 3.2% forecast in the February budget. S&amp;P took comfort in the expenditure ceilings that were in place which would mitigate the effects of the deficit he said. The deterioration is still within acceptable thresholds [but] Treasury must be able to stabilise debt. State-owned enterprises posed a further risk to the fiscal and debt burden Rusike said. While Treasury had tried to impose broader reforms on SOEs in exchange for financial support there needed to be greater political will to implement these reforms he said. [SOEs] remain a contingent risk on government finances. S&amp;P rated the strength of SA s institutions as neutral . Checks and balances in the economy were provided primarily by the judiciary and not by other arms of state while political infighting could potentially undermine government s commitment to making the right policy choices as well as the pace at which this happened Rusike said. It is important that government pulls together. What we are looking for is to see policies that are supportive of turning around the economic trajectory and providing growth in the medium term as well as a faster fiscal consolidation path in line with what was outlined in February. It s important to see economic reforms SOE reforms and political dynamics [that are] in check he said.If these reforms did not happen it was possible that the negative outlook on SA s sovereign credit rating could be resolved earlier than the 24-month period usually given for investment grade ratings Rusike said. Of the 20-odd countries that had lost their investment-grade rating from S&amp;P since the 1970s only eight had managed to regain that rating said Konrad Reuss MD of S&amp;P South Africa. It s tough to come back but it s possible. There s life after a downgrade he said.- TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE 