That was 10 years ago and next week the hi-tech hospital, which cost R1-billion to build and equip, will officially open its doors in Parktown, Johannesburg.Free of charge to those who cannot afford it, the privately run, state-funded hospital - which looks more like a hotel than a health facility - will care for some of South Africa's most needy children.Among its features are:Ten operating theatres, eight equipped with the latest video technology allowing doctors to watch or participate in surgeries from anywhere in the world; 'Jed's Bed' is hi-tech comfort for little ones Lecture theatres that will broadcast challenging operations for doctors to watch; A state-of-the-art MRI machine that can be used to diagnose heart problems; Free accommodation for families who live far away; and Beds next to patients for a parent.The hospital, across the road from the Wits Faculty of Medicine and Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital, will operate as a training facility. The land was donated by Wits University.The Mandela trust has paid for more than 200 paediatric nurses to be trained at universities, and has funded various specialists to do further sub-speciality training.It is South Africa's second hospital catering just for children, after the Red Cross Children's Hospital in Cape Town.Bolton, who played a key role in setting up the hospital, said while the government had a duty to provide basic healthcare to all, there was also a responsibility to invest in specialised care and training."You can give a child a measles vaccine - but when they have a hole in the heart, what does that help?"Bolton, who is now semi-retired, said potential donors in the US who were approached only wanted to give money for anti-malaria nets and HIV/Aids. "That's important, but why must a poor child not receive a liver transplant when across the highway rich children have them?"US donors had also baulked at the fact that the hospital would not have a walk-in casualty department. But the new facility was "a referral hospital for the sickest children requiring specialised care, and there is a casualty unit across the road at Charlotte Maxeke".The completed building made him wish he was younger, Bolton said. "I want to work there. Everyone who sees it wants to work there. The colour, light, open spaces and decor are as much about creating a child-friendly environment as they are about giving parents and tired care-givers a happy environment."</img>Keith Bolton. Image: SuppliedKeith Bolton. Image: SuppliedBut the funding challenges are not over. While the hospital will hold a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Friday attended by Mandela's widow Gra a Machel, it will not open its doors to sick children until about June next year, as the Treasury will only allocate an operating budget in March.Treasury spokesman Yolisa Tyantsi said in the meantime, the department was working with the Department of Health to shift the funds it needed to operate until March."The medium-term budget speech did hint that the hospital is an area that is likely to be prioritised in the 2017 budget. However, precise allocations will only be announced ... in the February budget speech," Tyantsi said.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said: "Nelson Mandela gave us this hospital, which we, the state should have been able to build and we will fund 100% of the running costs."Asked what Mandela would have liked most about the hospital, Bongi Mkhabela, CEO of the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, said: "A building that embraces children - the love and compassion that turned this structure from concrete into something soft and easy ... Treating children with respect and hearing their voices."childk@sundaytimes.co.za