The best Hollywood directors could not make up the Eskom chronicles exposed in the State of Capture report. It is sizzling and is probably one of the biggest South African expos s of poor or no governance at all, especially as it relates to conflicts of interest.Among all the people the former public protector investigated, her findings were most damning of the Eskom board."It appears that the board of Eskom was improperly appointed and not in line with the spirit of the King III report on corporate governance," the report says. Not just growth -- quality counts tooAs we now know, Eskom made a R659-million pre-payment to Tegeta, a company that is 29% owned by Oakbay Investments (the holding company for the Gupta family's businesses in South Africa), which in turn owns 80% of Oakbay Resources &amp; Energy. Oakbay Resources &amp; Energy is a 74% shareholder in Shiva Uranium. Tegeta has a 19.6% share in Shiva Uranium.There is a certain Mr Mark Pamensky on the Eskom board. He is also a director of Oakbay Resources &amp; Energy and Shiva Uranium. The interesting part is that Mr Pamensky disclosed his directorships, and therefore the conflict was known by the board.In fact, when Madonsela asked the Eskom board how it was that Mr Pamensky could be part of decisions that affected individuals and companies he clearly had a common interest with, the board responded: "Mr Pamensky was not part of the Board Tender Committee and thus could not have influenced any decision in respect of Tegeta."As per the public protector's report, it seems the board may have forgotten that "by virtue of his officio function and role in Eskom, he would have or could have access to privileged or sensitive information regarding Optimum Coal and various Eskom contracts. Such information coupled with a personal economic interest would give Tegeta an unfair advantage over other interested buyers."Most importantly, the board of Eskom, including Mr Pamensky, had to give approval for the sale of Optimum Coal to Tegeta.According to the public protector's report, Mr Pamensky was present in a board meeting that discussed the draft agreement between Optimum Coal Mine and Optimum Coal Holdings.And all this happens while the whole board is aware that Mr Pamensky works for the Gupta family.And then there is Ms Naidoo. She is an Eskom director and a member of the board tender committee that approved the much-talked-of, middle-of-the-night decision to pre-pay R659-million to the Guptas.Ms Naidoo is also the wife of one Mr Moodley.Mr Moodley was, at one point, the special adviser to the minister of mineral resources - who later approved the acquisition of Optimum Coal Holdings by Tegeta.Once again, Ms Naidoo declared this conflict, and duly recused herself from at least one meeting, according to the report. But there was another conflict, it seems.Her husband, Mr Moodley, is apparently the sole director of a company called Albatime, which contributed R10-million to Tegeta to acquire Optimum Coal - and furthermore she, Ms Naidoo is an employee of this company!She did declare this conflict, and yet continued to be part of the decision-making on the board and the board tender committee including the infamous 9pm meeting. Power play: why saving is toughThese are not the only cases of Eskom board members with links to the Gupta family found by the public protector - they are just the most overt actual or perceived conflicts. Surely these directors ought to have known they are in conflictual positions and should not have served on the Eskom board in the first place?According to the report, Ms Naidoo has a direct benefit from Eskom approving the Optimum/ Tegeta transaction. Her own husband had part-funded it. It's hard to argue with that assertion, based on the facts put forward.And even if the minister of public enterprises thought, for whatever reason, that Mr Pamensky had some rare and special skill to add to the Eskom board, where were the company secretary and the chairman?When Mr Pamensky declared his interests and the Optimum/Tegeta deal was tabled for discussion and eventual approval, why did they not insist on his recusal? Why did he not ask to be recused?Are we to believe that nobody could see the conflict in a director of Oakbay presiding over the approval of a transaction involving Tegeta?These are serious findings, and the penalties could lead not just to heavy fines but possibly even jail time.Like I said, no one could make this stuff up. Over to you, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng.Khumalo is the chief investment officer of MSG Afrika Group and presents "Power Business" on Power98.7 at 5pm, Monday to Thursday