A pall has descended over the franchise, especially after some players filed a grievance against the coach with the CCMA (Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration).The players have questioned, among others, his competencies, but Adams made it clear he cannot discuss the merits of the case.The Cobras board, however, has backed him, but the team's results (three heavy defeats in their first four Sunfoil Series matches) have cranked up the pressure on the young coach. Proteas pair continue their love affair with the WacaThe former test spinner contends that expectations at the start of the season were perhaps unrealistically high."It takes time. I think everyone expected results immediately," Adams said. "The situation was heavy for a couple of months, through the whole winter and then coming into the season."The board has made a decision, the season has started and we've gotta get on with the game that we love and play to the best of our ability."At the end of the day, I think the board knows there is a winner and a loser in every game. For me, it is about how we win and how we lose. How you play the game. We need to compete. That is the only way you win a game."Adams, some may argue belligerently, is in no doubt he is the man to lift the pall over the team."Ya, I've been here for a couple of years now," he reminded on the eve of their four-day match against the Dolphins."I have an understanding of what we've come through and how this team needs to transition."However, his relationship with some dissenting voices now seems fractured after the possibility of a player's strike was mooted this week.The controversy has cast a dark lingering shadow over Newlands with imminent resolution seemingly out of reach."One would have preferred for it to be done in the winter so that the team knew in which direction it was heading," he said of the controversy.Adams isn't blind to the peril of player power."It's been about understanding what the players want and the challenge in front us. When I played challenges were put in front of me and I always tried to search for solutions."It is going to need two parties to get into that mindset to take things forward. As a coach I need to be tapping into players and creating the right structures around them. I want to support, encourage and inspire. Team captains split over Gogga's leadership style"For them, they need to shift mentally after putting these allegations forward. They must shift without walking with that expectation on their shoulders."It is a tough situation. The game is hard enough and the pressures that come with it are even tougher. Having extra things on your shoulders can really burden you."Some will disagree, but Adams believes there is light at the end of the tunnel."The players are trying to get the results. For them it is about being professional and wanting to put a performance in for the team. I need to get them to enjoy what they are doing and play with freedom."Adams says new assistant coach Ashwell Prince has made an impact, but the franchise has temporarily lost his services due to commentating duties in Australia."He's obviously a strong character and he wants to bring that hardness in here. We have to put our heads together with how to deal with things."The controversy, he concedes, has taken a personal toll. "I've taken strain all round. I had to make sure my support base is strong and that they have an understanding of where I'm at and what I want to do for the team. I keep that support base nice and tight."Ultimately, however, the Cobras board will determine his destiny. They, whether they like it or not, are part of a stand-off in which no party can proceed without putting themselves in deeper peril.sports@timesmedia.co.za