Then-transport MEC Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana awarded the contract to the company without any tender process and flouted the Public Finance Management Act, according to a provisional report by the public protector.The report also found that: The debt collection firm, MPA Investigation Team, didn't have the qualifications to conduct the investigation; Two days before the contract was awarded, the company's director attended a five-day crash course in forensic investigation; The appointment was made purely on a recommendation to the MEC by "a comrade" who used to stay with her mother during the political struggle; Mpho Antonio, an administration clerk with the police, was MPA Investigation Team's "sole director" when the R5.8-million contract was awarded on September 16 2014. She was involved in extra remuneration work without permission; and Mokaba-Phukwana's actions were "improper" and constituted "maladministration".Irregular government spending: Here are the biggest culpritsThe public protector's investigation was launched following an EFF complaint.Mokaba-Phukwana has been moved to MEC for agriculture.Antonio resigned on December 31 2015 after the public protector interview. Her husband, Martins Antonio, took over as sole director.Martins told the Sunday Times on Friday he was a rhino-poaching investigator."I was in Kruger National Park investigating a case of rhino poaching when I got a call to see the MEC ... I didn't submit any tender document for this contract. I was told I must investigate a case of computers stolen from the building. That's how I got this deal."He confirmed he had begun a five-day forensic investigation course just two days before being awarded the contract."I am a forensic investigator," he said, but failed to produce any documentation. He refused to answer further questions or give a contact number for his wife.Mokaba-Phukwana told the Sunday Times that Martins had come "highly recommended" by a comrade. When she was advised that the company was appointed irregularly, she terminated the contract. However, Martins denied this, saying the contract was still in place.Limpopo transport department spokesman Joshua Kwapa said yesterday the contract with MPA Investigation Team ended in August last year.Mokaba-Phukwana said she had launched the forensic investigation because a service provider had told her that he had taken the computers because he had not been paid. S he welcomed any investigation as it would give her an opportunity to clear her name. "I don't think I have committed any crime or [been] involved in any corrupt activities."Phuti Seloba, spokesman for Limpopo premier Stanley Mathabatha, said the premier was aware of the investigation and waiting for the final report before taking action.Public protector spokesman Oupa Segalwe said yesterday: "We are putting final touches to the report."