Krige was part of the 2002 rabble that limped from Marseille (30-10 loss to France) to Edinburgh (21-6 loss to Scotland) and London (53-3 loss to England).While the quality of that Rudolf Straeuli-coached squad was always in doubt, there was a clear dearth of experience and leadership comparable to the current lot mentored by Allister Coetzee.Krige runs the rule on who could have test captaincy aspirations with Adriaan Strauss not returning to the helm next year.I think he's probably the best No8 we have and is the best candidate for the job. He has a presence that is felt when he's playing and he's a bigger force to be reckoned with when fit and in form. When he led the Stormers, he did so quite successfully. The fact he made those comments in regards with the health of rugby in the country should be viewed from the fact he cares about the game here and he wants to make a difference.He may not be the biggest No8 going around but he has punched above his weight consistently and proved he's a capable leader with the Lions. It's just a case of him being on the sidelines when Duane is at his best because you don't want to pick the captain, then tailor the needs of the team around him. There have been times when that has worked but it doesn't work all the time. Once he cements his place in the starting lineup, he could be a force to be reckoned with when it comes to being a captain. Again, you want to avoid the John Smit/Bismarck du Plessis scenario where you are being pushed by the player below you because they may just have better playing credentials. It puts unnecessary pressure on the player but he's shown massive potential as a player and leader and once he gets that approval, he will be difficult to shake off. His game has got better with each season and he is a beast defensively. Also, he could help settle the balance of the back-row.I'm not sure this would be a good call early next year, but he proved himself a capable leader at under-20 level. However, he also needs to be fit and find the form that made him such a star before injury. It would be saddling him with unnecessary pressure if he's made captain early because he is a leader for the future and still needs to learn.This could be another case of picking the captain before the team because it goes without saying that Lambie is the Sharks captain and the best player at his franchise. Also, using him as the captain in the Barbarians game was a good trial run and we have seen his leadership credentials when he's been pushed in the position. But it will depend on where he is used as a player.