What they have released to the world today is simply a facelifted version of the Golf 7 that s been around the block since 2012.These are the five most important things you need to know about the refreshed version, which will be launched locally next year:1) It can drive itself. Well, almostA technological ace up the new Golf s sleeve is something called Traffic Jam Assist (TJA). By fusing the functionality of Lane Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control, TJA will automatically steer, brake and accelerate you through stop-start traffic at speeds of up to 60km/h. Fancy.All hail the 10 most long-lived cars of all time2) There is a new turbocharged petrol engine on offerAs diesel (TDI) is now a dirty word Volkswagen has developed an all-new petrol engine for your driving pleasure. The 1.5 TSI Evo motor churns out a useful 110kW. Later on this will be joined by a detuned 96kW BlueMotion version.Both engines will feature fuel-saving technology such as Active Cylinder Management that, when conditions alloy, will automatically shutdown one or more cylinders to further reduce consumption.In addition to this the familiar six-speed DSG gearbox will slowly be phased out in favour of a more efficient seven-speed unit.3) It's packed with hot new digital infotainment systemsPeople love tech. iPhones. Smart watches. Tablets. Volkswagen knows this better than anybody and as such has equipped the Golf with their new Discover Pro infotainment system.Rocking a 9.2-inch display, the Discover Pro infotainment system can be operated via hand gestures and comes linked to an Active Info Display: a digital instrument panel that s already been seen in the Passat, Tiguan and Touareg. This is, apparently, a world first in the compact hatchback class.</img>The Discover Pro infotainment system in the refreshed Golf 7 can be operated via hand gestures Image: Supplied The Discover Pro infotainment system in the refreshed Golf 7 can be operated via hand gestures Image: Supplied 4) The GTI has been given a boost in powerSouth Africans will love this bit of news. From 2017 onwards the Golf GTI will now sport 169kW as standard a hike of 7kW. Performance Pack models will now muscle out 180kW an increase of 11kW.5) It looks sleeker and meaner than ever beforeA facelift isn t a facelift without a cosmetic nip and tuck. As such the refreshed Golf 7 has been madeover with new bumpers, new halogen headlights with LED daytime running lights and new full LED headlights to replace the xenon headlights.You ll also find new front wings, new full LED tail lights fitted as standard on every version as well as new alloy wheels. This article was originally published on IgnitionLIVE. IgnitionLIVE is South Africa's premier motoring title, delivering supercharged motoring content. Follow them on Facebook.