Curated around experiences, the gig promises an exciting line-up of international music, food tastings, fine art, fashion and design."If the first Littlegig 24h Festival moved you, the next one will be transporting," says founder and curator Georgia Black. "We ve gone all out to source people doing the most interesting things with music, food, wine and design; all in the spirit of open-minded curiosity and creative expression. And we re keeping the festival small and intimate, which is key to the Littlegig experience."WATCH: See what went down at the 2016 Littlegig Festivallittle gigHeadlining the foodie front is the wonder chef behind Copenhagen s Alchemist restaurant, Rasmus Munk. Other stars include German electronic violinist Seth Schwarz, globetrotting DJ Captain Planet and internationally acclaimed South African music producer Culoe de Song.An integral part of the experience is the incorporation of outdoor art and contemporary design. Highlights from last year s gig, such as a gin bar installation designed by Porky Hefer and floating swans by architect and artist duo, Sean and Justine Mahoney will be complemented by new and bespoke pieces by local talents such as Xandre Kriel, Atang Tshikare and Rowan Smith.Other festival highlights include a dance floor on a basketball court, a hair and make-up salon, a forest banquet, live bands, wine tastings, chef-and-farmer tasting experiences, a beautiful lake for swimming and a concept store filled with fashion.Ticket prices (including all food, drinks and accommodation): R2,500 for a camping ticket, from R3,150 - R4,500 for a glamping ticket and R1,950 for a daytrip ticket (accommodation not included). Visit Littlegig.co.zaYou and your partner could win a pair of glamping tickets worth R10,500 to the 2017 Littlegig 24h Festival.Tickets include a large, styled bell tent with twin beds, 100% cotton linen, porterage and your own private portaloo. Plus celebrity chef-curated all-day food, all drinks (including a wine tasting), complementary hair and make-up at the champagne salon, 6 pop-up music experiences, a yoga class and a free convenience store.Like the LittleGig Facebook page and then enter by simply answering the following question: Name the world's only 24-hour, all-included, curated festival ; e-mail your answer to 24h@littlegig.co.za by Monday December 5 2016. All correct answers will be placed into a lucky draw and the winner will be chosen at random.TERMS &amp; CONDITIONS This competition is run by Littlegig and is limited to residents in South Africa and people over 21 years of age. This competition starts on Sunday November 27 2016 and ends on Monday December 5 2016. No entries received after midnight on Monday December 5 2016 will be considered. No purchase is necessary to enter the competition. You must be willing to provide your full name, e-mail address and contact details if you are a winner. If you do not want your name published please do not enter. Winners will be selected randomly. The winner's name will be announced on Littlegig's Facebook page. All entrants e-mail addresses will be added to the Littlegig newsletter database. Winners must agree to provide a photo that may be posted on Littlegig's social media pages. Prizes are not transferable and cannot be exchanged for cash or any other item. Littlegig reserves the right to change or alter these rules at any time. This competition is not open to staff, immediate family or suppliers of Littlegig or the Sunday Times. Incorrect answers to the entry question will not be considered for the prize. The prize excludes transport to and from the Littlegig venue. The prize is only valid for Littlegig 2017. Should the first drawn entrant be unavailable via their contact details within a period of two days, the competition organisers will contact the next correct entrant, and so on.