In Dido's 2009 hit song Sand in My Shoes, she sings, Two weeks away feels likes the whole world should have changed/ But I'm home now/ And things still look the same/ I think I'll leave it till tomorrow to unpack/ Try to forget for one night that I'm back in my flat.In a few words she captures the surreal feeling of returning home from some foreign place where, immersed in new sights and sounds, we finally felt alive. To remind us how brave we were, we collect fridge magnets, take photographs and post #TBT during our lunch hour.But some of us do other things. War zones, red tape & food poisoning: behind the wheel from SA to EuropeAs a teenager in Durban I was inspired by novels that exposed me to foreign places like the Midwest, London's East End, snowy Russia and the rocky Himalayas and I became determined to possess this wide and wonderful world in my own way.On local family holidays I collected bags of sand from beaches in Cape Town, Port Elizabeth and KwaZulu-Natal's South Coast. In 2001 I asked my sister to bring me back a piece of Mauritius from her holiday, and thus my sand-collecting journey went international. Soon after I brought back my own sand from a trip across India with my family.As I got older my hobby became more than just owning a piece of the world, it became an anchor to capture my travel memories and the history of the land itself.However, unless you're on a beach holiday, sand-collecting is no easy feat; the process usually involves scraping gravel, surreptitiously clawing up parks and poking fingers into gardens while avoiding eye contact with passers-by. The contents of these exertions are then deposited into hotel shampoo bottles, airsickness bags and even Purity bottles.In expensive cities where land value is high it's almost downright impossible. When my sister visited Japan I begged her to bring some sand and all she found were a few stones (most likely from someone's zen garden). In Singapore I struggled so much that I finally dug up soil from the hotel foyer's potted plant while the concierge was busy. My bottled sand reminds me that dreams can become a reality and that big things can happen to small people And if I thought expensive cities were tough, conflict zones where the very land is being contested are even more difficult. Regretting not having brought back sand from Palestine when I visited in 1993, I tried to coax a friend who was going there to bring some back. Surprisingly, Israeli security takes land grabbing very seriously and they confiscated it from his bag.In Lahore at the tense Wagha border between India and Pakistan I dug up a handful of sand and took it across into India and for a while in my pocket, the two lands were finally united.Kashmir, the contested Himalayan region, was another story. I worked up the courage to teach at a school in the mountains of Jammu and Kashmir some 2,100m above sea level in a small village that could only be reached by horse. For four months with a group of volunteers I taught the loveliest kids so hungry for knowledge that some of them walked for kilometres uphill every morning just to learn.On rainy days the mountain turned into mud that the villagers used to bake into bricks and it was this clay that lined the path that passed through fields filled with corn and apples to the school. This was the earth I chose to bring back from Kashmir; not the earth stained with blood from the valley just below.</img>Shubnum Khan in her study. Image: Supplied Shubnum Khan in her study. Image: Supplied In the US I arrived in the final weeks of a particularly cold winter. Like the weather outside I was undergoing my own inner changes as I recovered from heartache.I lived with a group of writers in rural upstate New York in a Colonial Dutch house overlooking the Catskills. The place radiated old American charm with sprawling hills, red tractors, gable-end homes and neighbours who waved.A 5km walk dubbed The Loop became my daily habit in reflection and as the season changed so too did the landscape; icy ponds melted, magnolias bloomed and sparrows began to sing. As spring arrived I too felt myself emerge from the cold and at the end of my last walk I dug up the earth from the path that had kept me going that winter's end.In China I lived for six months in a majestic 1906 hotel on the Bund in Shanghai as part of a residency with Swatch Watch. My studio overlooked Nanjing East, the main shopping street in China and one of the busiest in the world. From the ceiling I hung dried roses and my writing desk was filled with plants and flowers. There were places where I actually forgot my mission; in Canada and England, utterly depressed over some private matter, I collected no sand at all I hardly ventured out because of the crowds and when I did try to collect sand from outside I suspected its integrity had been compromised with dirt and pollution from the bustling city. Exasperated, in my last week I finally emptied a pot plant on my desk and while it may have been mostly potting soil, in retrospect I can't imagine any place better to have taken a sample from than my studio's writing desk.Bali, the Maldives, Phuket and Penang, no beach resort was a problem.And in Morocco I managed a handful of dust from the outskirts of the Volubilis Ruins. In Saudi Arabia, having heard stories of sands that wept for their return to the holy lands, I ensured mine was only from the coastal city of Jeddah.The rest of my collection from Switzerland, South Korea, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey is a mix of gifts and moments I can't recall anymore.There were places where I actually forgot my mission; in Canada and England, utterly depressed over some private matter, I collected no sand at all. In Spain I was too taken by the unexpected delight of finding myself in the middle of Cordoba's Patios Festival (where the entire city celebrates spring by inviting visitors to admire their blossoming patios) to remember anything else.</img>Shubnum Khan spent four months with a group of volunteers teaching kids in Kashmir. Image: SuppliedShubnum Khan spent four months with a group of volunteers teaching kids in Kashmir. Image: SuppliedThese bottles of sand serve as a reminder to keep dreaming. As a teenager in the Durban library, even imagining that I might go out into the world this way seemed impossible; I was (and still am) a girl from a small and often conservative community.The experience has been both rewarding and frustrating. My bottled sand reminds me that dreams can become a reality and that big things can happen to small people.When Dido was singing about sand in her shoes, I think what she was really talking about was dreams in bottles and how we should never stop pursuing them.