Hazard has been reborn under head coach Conte and has scored in three successive league games for the first time in his career, before yesterday's game against Everton at Stamford Bridge.The Belgian looked primed to make up ground on the likes of Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Gareth Bale after Chelsea's 2014-15 title-winning season in which he was voted the Player of the Year by the Professional Footballers' Association. Arsenal v Spurs: A derby laced with fear, loathingBut he dramatically lost form last term and has been forced to prove himself all over again, which he is now doing under Conte.The Italian, who is famed for his tough training regime and his strict rules on nutrition, never had any doubt about Hazard's talent, but insists the only way to the top is through hard work and playing for the entire team."We all know the great talent of Eden," said Conte. "I think he must continue to work and to improve his talent, but in this moment he's putting his talent, putting himself, in the team."That is fantastic. It's the right way to become one of the best in the world."Now, if you ask me the difference between him and Messi and Ronaldo, I don't want to reply to this. The only thing I want is to work with my players and try and improve them, to support them in every moment."I repeat - with only talent, it's very difficult to be the best. You must put together, with the talent, a good physical condition and good organisation in the team. You need all of this, along with the talent, to become a great, great footballer."Because I had my own experiences in my career as a footballer, when you have a great talent it's important to support that with great form and good organisation and tactical aspects."If you find all these [ingredients], probably you are a fantastic player."Hazard did not score for Chelsea until January last season, but Conte believes the forward's new role in his 3-4-3 formation should give him greater opportunities to become more prolific. So far, he has five goals in this campaign. Klopp downplays Reds' lack-of-Europe advantage"I think that Eden is playing now closer to the goal," said Conte. "He's participating more in offensive situations. I think it's better for him, this type of situation, which sees him staying in a position where he can finish easier compared to in the past."He has also revealed that his matchday routine includes a spoonful of pure honey to ease his vocal chords, even though his wife prefers his husky voice.In addition, Conte is importing Ambrosoli al Miele sweets from Italy to help soothe his throat after shouting instructions at his Chelsea players in training and in games."During the training sessions, I eat five sweets," said Conte."It's important to lubricate my throat and it helps my voice. I had them with Juventus and Italy too, it's important. Before the game I like to eat honey and at halftime in the dressing room."Asked whether his wife liked his voice when it got hoarse, Conte laughed and replied: "She tells me it is more attractive like this, more sensual, but I prefer to have my normal voice."