A visibly upset Ngubane accused Madonsela of taking this country [down] a slippery slope by seeking to remove Molefe from his post. The Eskom board is fully and completely satisfied that all legal processes were followed, he said. The public protector s speculation is extremely worrying. We are fully behind our CEO, Brian Molefe. Molefe also lashed out at Madonsela, saying he d bent over backwards for her probe, only to be denied the opportunity to present his version of events. Eskom board faults report but mum on cell calls She asked for files. We gave her 120 files. She subpoenaed us. Then she cancelled the meeting, he said. But she never called us. Madonsela had finalised her report a day after Eskom provided her with piles of documents to justify its R660-million prepayment for coal deliveries to Tegeta, Molefe said. There lies my gripe. I was never given the opportunity to tell my side of the story. On Friday, Eskom said Madonsela s report was not based on fact . It said a legal opinion had concluded that its supply agreement with Tegeta complied with the Public Finance Management Act, Eskom played no role in Optimum s decision to opt for business rescue, it had no influence over the sale, and that all its coal transactions were based on sound commercial rationale. In her report, Madonsela noted that board members Viroshini Naidoo, Nazia Carrim and Mark Pamensky had links to entities involved in the Optimum deal and had attended key meetings at which they did not recuse themselves.She concluded that the Eskom board has not sufficiently managed its conflicts .But on Friday, Eskom repeated its written responses to Madonsela in outlining why it believed board members possible conflicts of interest had been properly managed.It said Pamensky was not part of the tender committee and so could not influence decisions on Tegeta, and Naidoo did not need to recuse herself from the prepayment approval meetings in April as her husband no longer worked as an adviser for Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane.Carrim s conflict did not need to be declared as she was not directly related to Gupta associate Salim Essa and was not on the tender committee. Molefe wasn t a member of any board subcommittees and cannot influence board decisions , Eskom said. Power lines short out Eskom ethicsEskom did not respond to questions from the Sunday Times about why Molefe made dozens of phone calls to Ajay Gupta and Tegeta directors and regularly visited Saxonwold at critical stages of the deal.Madonsela was unfazed by the attacks on her. She conceded that a planned meeting with Molefe was postponed, then cancelled, due to a scheduling error .She said: So the one-on-one meeting fell through. But the Public Protector Act doesn t require a one-on-one. Molefe had ample opportunity to answer her questions in writing, she said. What [Molefe] is not telling you is that they applied for an extension to supply more information. But you can t go through a hundred and something boxes. Government does that all the time. You are looking for a needle and they give you a forest. Molefe had failed to answer her most pertinent question. I asked: What is your relationship with the Guptas? And he spoke about bars ... Her job had taught her never to take anything at face value. One thing I learnt when I became a public protector and involved in investigations is that people lie with a straight face and very convincingly. 