Victory for the Azzurri condemned the Boks to their seventh loss in 11 Tests this year, an unacceptable return by any measure. It was also their first over one of the southern hemisphere giants (although the Boks are a long way from that these days) and their first win over SA at their 13th attempt.Coetzee runs the ship and he has been unable stem the flow of frankly, pathetic results that have relegated the Springboks to a tier two nation, 15 months after they were third at the World Cup.The coach will point to numerous structural failings in SA Rugby as the reason for the team s downfall, but it doesn t wash.There is disagreement on tactics among the coaching staff, the defence has been a shambles all season as it was again yesterday and on attack the Boks have been impotent. The team culture is also a mess and it all stems from the top.The visitors enjoyed 58% possession and 62% territory and forced the Italians on the back foot for long periods. But they were so predictable on attack that they couldn t fashion an overlap or mismatch. One off static runners were swamped by a committed Italian defence.Coetzee lamented that there have been three defensive coaches this season, but he was in charge of planning the season and should have identified that area as the most important building block and then gone out and found the right coach from the outset.Brendan Venter, who lives Cape Town, has been Italian defence consultant for three weeks and they have showed vast improvement.The coach has picked players who don t appear to have the mental fortitude to cope with the high pressure of Test rugby and he hasn't given them the tools to cope either.The entire operation is from top to bottom is in need of an overhaul because despite making the right noises every week, nothing has changed.In a surprisingly open match considering wet and greasy conditions the Boks again continued to be the architects of their own problems as multiple mistakes cost them scoring chances.Every week Coetzee has lamented errors costing his team and every week they re-emerge.Coetzee needed a win to keep the wolves from the door. His time is up and all that remains is for Wales to read the last rites on Bok rugby in Cardiff next week.The Boks started promisingly, scoring a try through Bryan Habana in the ninth minute his 67th in Test rugby - but not for the first time this season they botched the re-start.Vincent Koch shielded Lood de Jager, who took the kick and from the penalty the Italians kicked to touch and scored through SA-born lock Dries van Schalkwyk.The match see-sawed with Boks centre Damian de Allende scoring a neat long-range try but the visitors could never beak free, or break down the Italian defence.When wing Giovanbattista Venditti scored midway through the second half another dark day in Bok rugby was in sight. The boot of flyhalf Carlo Canna made sure of it wth a 65th minute penalty.Italy 20 (10) South Africa 18 (12)Scorers:Italy Tries: Andries van Schalkwyk, Giovanbattista Venditti. Conversions: Carlo Canna (2). Penalties: Edoardo Padovani, Canna.South Africa Tries: Bryan Habana, Damian de Allende. Conversion: Pat Lambie. Penalties: Lambie, Elton Jantjies.