Young comedian Simmi Areff has contemplated on identity, friendships and connections, and why age matters. He studied philosophy before pursuing a career in stand-up."Comedy is modern-day philosophy ... in a different form. It is just saying what you think and right now you may laugh at it, but in a few years they'll say, 'Hey ... he said that in 2016'. Usually by then, the person who said it will be dead and it will mean a lot more."Burn! Top SA comedians reveal the best put-down they've ever heardAreff is 28, but says age is irrelevant."Why is age such an important thing? It only means how long you have been on earth. It means nothing about your experience of life."In comedy years, he considers himself middle-aged (he started eight years ago). It brings a midlife crisis. He is taking his show to the UK next year, to work it out."I think, right now, comedy in South Africa has a low ceiling. To do well, you must do your one-man gig, play at clubs and shows regularly. And then what? That is about as good as it gets," he says.Areff says it is in differentiating himself that he will become universal (see, deep thought)."Anyone can make a local audience identify with a Jacob Zuma joke, but can you make it if you take your act overseas? We have a lot of what is known as 'hacks' in comedy circles. I call it porridge. It's like you have this breakfast choice; it is not the best choice but you will take it because it's fine, porridge. But wouldn't you rather have some eggs, quinoa and avocado? I know I don't do porridge. I want to take my eggs and test them overseas."Everyone has different perspectives. Mine is unique, a Muslim kid from South Africa."He believes comedy is not valued as an art form. "When we do gigs, we ask, 'Who is watching stand-up for the first time?' Most often, more than half the room. Club comedy is worse. At Poppy's in Melville or Kitchener's Bar, you might be lucky if there are eight people on a week night. The thing is, you have to perfect your act, by performing it."For Areff, financial success is important, but not the same as conquering the entertainment scene.</img>Simmi Areff uses a maximum number of expletives per show. Image: SuppliedSimmi Areff uses a maximum number of expletives per show. Image: SuppliedHis comedy is made up of life-based anecdotes and observation of human nature, he is blunt and slightly controversial. He uses a maximum number of expletives per show, if any. "Only if necessary and I count how many times I swear. Otherwise, nothing is off limits. Maybe the Koran. I don't feel comedy has boundaries but I can't translate the Koran so I don't go there. What is funny about my holy book anyway?"His religious inclinations do come into question, because Islam is cautionary about excessive laughter."I have worked out what my values are. If someone has issues and still comes to see me, I tell them to be quiet, watch the show and have some fun. I did get offensive messages and I would respond, but I have learnt to ignore them."If fans had observed Areff with his head in his phone, it is not just because he is an avid Pok mon hunter.He is happily holed up in his apartment with his PlayStation, claiming to be anti-social.He's friendly with the staff and regulars at the Goliath Comedy Club at Melrose Arch. They tease him about his ubiquitous hairbrush and quitting sugar. "I can't help that I am handsome. I have to maintain it. I drink green tea, which is disgusting."Dillan Oliphant: SA's quick-witted king of one-linersLike many comics, the bug bit at Cool Runnings in Melville about eight years ago. Areff says his ego grew "mammothly" after his first open mic back home in Durban. He tanked at his second attempt."I died, on my ass. It was terrible. Nobody laughed and I couldn't remember the gags. So of course I had to prove to myself that I could do it again. And that I was not bad."He got a mentor, and recalls e-mailing Riaad Moosa for advice in 2008.He opened for Moosa within his first year of comedy and they toured together, doing 50 shows before his one-man show. In December he will perform at a Bollywood event at the Sandton Convention Centre with Moosa."It is a great experience for me because I actually identify as South African and Bollywood is this gigantic phenomenon."I have done a bit of research on my heritage because people assume I am Indian. Areff is a Persian surname, which means knowledge. People assume it is Indian, but like biryani, it comes from Iraq and Iran."He has also contemplated why fans would disrupt his dinner while on a date."I worked out, it is adoration for what you do, and I had to accept it. Especially after I did the MTV series #YouGotGot, kids will stop me and ask for a joke. You can't be mean to a kid, so why would you be that way to any other human being? I do say forget taking selfies, tell me about yourself, rather." Thought sharing. Catch Simmi Areff on December 3 at the Kings &amp; Queens of Comedy And All, featuring Riaad Moosa, at the Sandton Convention Centre.