Her mom's reticence is understandable Kim had never seen the incomplete house, and it was only on the recommendation of her sister, Lisa Murray, the owner and designer of the Plett interiors business Ilovani, she was ready to invest.</img>The standout Red Box that gives this unusual Plett home it's name. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe standout Red Box that gives this unusual Plett home it's name. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography I knew if my mother had a 100% change of heart then it was the house for my husband and I, she says talking over Skype from the edge of London, where the Houghs are currently based.After viewing the house, her mom agreed it was a good buy. The papers were signed, the house transferred and a major building project put in play.Originally designed for two brothers who wanted identical wings in other words two entrance halls, two kitchens, duplicate bedrooms, bathrooms and more the house needed a complete transformation to move it from an unusual set up into a home that could be enjoyed by family, friends, and guests. And could also be a repository for Kim s precious collection of antiques and Chinese collectables.</img> Kim's love for antiques is seen from the outset - the hat-stand at the front door was made with love by her father-in-law. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyKim's love for antiques is seen from the outset - the hat-stand at the front door was made with love by her father-in-law. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography</img>Fluffy rugs, woven textures and natural woods add a sense of warmth to this concrete home. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyFluffy rugs, woven textures and natural woods add a sense of warmth to this concrete home. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography</img> A mod light fixture and rug define the dining area within the larger open-plan space. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyA mod light fixture and rug define the dining area within the larger open-plan space. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography We had a Victorian house in Newlands, she explains. And I've been going to auction for years. I love antiques and iconography and I also lived in Hong Kong so I bought a lot of Chinese art and antiques there and in Macao. Additionally she has an impressive collection of art. Figurative paintings by Lesley Whittaker hang alongside cubist still lives. My mom is an artist, she says. My grandmother was an artist (she created the first label Robertson s Spice) and we've always been encouraged to be artistic. </img>The painting is by artist Jill Whittaker. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe painting is by artist Jill Whittaker. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography</img>The modern kitchen provides plenty of space for cooking and entertaining. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe modern kitchen provides plenty of space for cooking and entertaining. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography</img> I like a cosy bedroom I don't want anything too clinical," says Kim. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography I like a cosy bedroom I don't want anything too clinical," says Kim. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe result is a continuum of warmth that runs throughout the house deep reds and greens offset by gilt frames against the concrete walls of both the more minimalist downstairs and rich upstairs rooms. The feel upstairs is so different to downstairs, says Kim. I like a cosy bedroom I don't want anything too clinical. Lisa helped with the style and furniture downstairs, it's such a vast space we had to get a lot of pieces custom made. </img> The deck overlooks the vlei behind Plett's Solar beach. The cushions are by Isobel Sippel and Ira Bekker (both available at Ilovani). Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe deck overlooks the vlei behind Plett's Solar beach. The cushions are by Isobel Sippel and Ira Bekker (both available at Ilovani). Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo Photography</img> The swinging chairs are refashioned from oak barrels by Ilovani. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyThe swinging chairs are refashioned from oak barrels by Ilovani. Image: Vanessa van Vreden at Avo PhotographyA concrete house is not for everyone. It can be cold and imposing. But, it can also be a wonderfully liberating space that is open for interpretation something solid upon which to add a sense of history and life. And that s exactly what has happened within this space.