Johannesburg pianist Caroline Leisegang, 26, won the iTunes award for best classical album last year for her debut release, the moody, evocative yeblikk - Norwegian for "blink of an eye".This month she released her second album, Simple Circles, inspired by someone special in her life. We asked her more about it.Pretty Yende releases her debut album, 'A Journey'How has your composing evolved since the first album?I have explored the idea of space in my writing, but this series is completely different to my first. I'm still exploring what I can do and still finding my place.Tell us about this album.It is incredibly special to me. This year has been one of many ups and downs, and at times quite difficult, but there has been a part of this year which has been inspiring, weird and really wonderful. This series has been my way of capturing that part of the year and keeping it close. It is a little piece of home.What was the thought process behind it?The inspiration was a person, the experience of getting to know them, the way in which I saw them and how I learnt from them. I am not often swept away by people, I am usually quite wary, so the inspiration for this is quite special.Your first album was described as sad, is this one more uplifting?It's not a sad album, but then again, it translates so differently for each listener. I think it is moving, but that's just me.How does one go about composing classical music?I can confidently say that I still don't have a process. It is more of a thing where I put together little musical ideas in my head and when I am ready I piece them together. Organist Jeremy Joseph's the toast of Vienna, but SA plays on his heartstringsWhere is South African classical music right now?It is definitely not shining as bright as it should be. We have a massive classical music scene in South Africa, phenomenal orchestras and initiatives and the talent in this country is truly awe-inspiring - but it is not getting the support it deserves.I am just one small part of it, definitely not big enough to create a stir just yet, but I am hoping that with my projects others will want to follow. There are composers a million times more talented than I, and I want them to be less afraid of the music industry and to just stand up and be who they are.Do you have any non-classical musical interests?I listen mostly to most other genres and not actually classical. I love jazz, everything '80s, pop, indie, rock.What have you been doing since your last album (apart from writing this one?)I have been finishing the score for Geometries, a sort of "digital" ballet that will be made into a short film rather than performed on stage. I have been exploring all sorts of crafts, from knitting to woodwork and taking lots of photos.I have been learning about trees and birds and taking some downtime. I love to knit and sew. I went on a little frenzy of building things. I enjoy a good walk, from Joburg streets to hikes in the Magaliesberg.WATCH the music video for Caroline Leisegang song Dr mme I 