"For you Princessa, I stop at the best ba o in the world."The expansive promise by the cigar-puffing driver on the public collective or Bolivian chicken bus did little to alleviate my bursting bladder. Three hours of hard, bumpy travel on the Death Road out of La Paz and litres of agua had me hopping miserably from foot to foot.The Aymara people, who made up the majority of passengers, were not on a scenic road trip. Accidental Tourist: Death Road detours in BoliviaAll en route to the markets and trade stores, they were anxious to get to our destination pronto.My unofficial ba o stops had them glowering at me from under their felt mountain hats."Here we are Princessa," grinned my Lothario driver as I hopped off the bus, desperate for relief and expecting a structure of some sort.I had been in Bolivia long enough to know that the water crisis coupled with poor construction meant any toilet stop would be a nightmare.However, this time there wasn't even a structure. A lone, sad clay potty stood desolate behind the skinniest tree possible.The tree looked like it had aspirations of growing into a stick. I had a bus of furious cholitas (basically, tough tribeswomen) behind me, a potty with a magnificent view of the Death Road before me and very little choice.I pulled down my pants, aware that I was mooning an ancient tribe as the skinny tree did little to conceal my rear.Then I ran back to the bus to angry shouts of " ndale, ndale, let's go!" as the cholitas clicked their tongues. Even the chickens looked annoyed.I fell asleep hidden under my travel jacket to avoid the death stares on Death Road. I awoke as our collective reached the crossing point of Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable lake in the world.The lake was crisp blue in the icy morning and the cholitas seemed to have forgiven me. They gave me api, a purple maize tea with pastias (pastries) for breakfast.We sat eating on the shore as our ferry chugged into view. I was ecstatic to be crossing into Peru at last. However, we had to wait because the first passenger aboard the ferry was our bus. I giggled as our driver deftly drove up the ramp and waved merrily as our bus floated off.One had to wonder if the copious number of coca leaves we'd had to eat to alleviate altitude sickness had finally kicked in. It was a surreal sight on a surreal morning. The Hello Kitty geishas took turns throwing up melodiously into plastic bags as our bus tottered up the mountain Cuzco, the picturesque Incan/Spanish town below Machu Picchu, is a cobbled haven combining Incan and Conquistador architecture and culture.As I wandered about the square eating gelatinas in plastic cups, the strains of Tracy Chapman's Talking About a Revolution filled the air. Imagine my surprise when the DJ played Sipho "Hotstix" Mabuse's Burnout as his next track.The next day I started the trek up to Aguas Calientes, the little hot-spring town below Macchu Picchu. Once again we used a colectivo that climbed a route as precarious as Death Road. A razor-thin rocky trail cut into the edges of one of the highest mountain ranges in the world.Our group consisted of some identical Japanese girls in high heels, whom we dubbed the "Hello Kitty geishas" due to the Hello Kitty luggage they carried. Accidental Tourist: The road most travelled must be in IndiaThe "Argentinian rock boys" serenaded us with Latin songs and there was a retired Florida couple who shouted "GAWWD, YEESUS" every time it seemed our colectivo was going to slide off the treacherous road.The Hello Kitty geishas took turns throwing up melodiously into plastic bags as our bus tottered up the mountain.That night, we soaked in the Aguas Calientes hot springs and slept deeply, ready for our 5am trek to Macchu the next day.Macchu Picchu was astounding and one could only ponder humankind's lost history as we explored the citadel in the clouds.That night we inched our way in the rattletrap colectivo back down to Cuzco in the rain.Rock falls caused us to stop several times and the Argentinian rock boys found themselves moving boulders in the dark as the heavens opened and the geishas threw up."You see my friends," grunted our driver, "now you can say you are rock stars in Peru." Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za