We sit back and wonder what the fuss is about. Yes, the streets are crowded and we can dimly hear horns but, cocooned in our vehicle, we decide what we've heard about Indian traffic is clearly exaggerated. Until the next day, that is.The following morning, we stand at the roadside and tentatively hail a motorised rickshaw. Swerving across the traffic, the tuk-tuk pulls up beside us, revealing two men in the back. Accidental Tourist: How to get a (sick)bed in economy class"Where you are wanting to go?""To the Literature Festival, Diggi Palace. Do you know the way?"The answer is both a nod and a shake of the head, more-or-less simultaneously, the inimitable, non-committal Indian head-waggle."Yes, yes, I am taking you there in no time. Please to get in.""But you already have passengers. We'll wait for the next tuk-tuk.""No, no, they are my friends. They can be riding in front."He addresses the two young men in the back in rapid Hindi and they climb out."How much?" I ask."No to be worrying; I am taking you safely there.""Yes, thank you, but how much?"We agree on a price and the two of us climb into the back. The side I am on is terrifyingly open and I grip the side firmly. Looking through the back window, I watch the driver wind a rope around some part of the motor and then pull it smartly towards himself with a flourish.On the fourth go, the motor leaps into life and he rushes round and jumps nimbly into the driver's seat; the other two climb in hastily and drape an arm around him and each other as they balance precariously on the seat designed for two. In India there is always room.We see whole families riding on one motorbike - father in front, child balanced on the handlebars, mother sitting side-saddle at the back with the baby. But first prize must go to the minibus taxi, inside of which we count 22 people; outside, six more balance on the back bumper and cling on.Although white lines demarcate lanes on the road, there might as well be none. Cars, buses, tuk-tuks, motorbikes, bicycles, trucks and rickshaws crowd into every available space, amid a cacophony of hooting. Accidental Tourist: Why it's so lekker to come home to South AfricaDrivers hoot to make way, to signal they are passing, or just sommer! Vans carry the words "Blow horn!" on the back, and everybody, it seems, obliges.In addition to the listed road users, there are pedestrians, horses, camels, cows, stray dogs and the occasional elephant. Cows in particular take full advantage of their sacred status in mainly Hindu Rajasthan and think nothing of standing in the middle of a double-lane highway, nonchalantly watching the traffic swerve around them.At one point we stop at a level crossing. As the train passes, the traffic spreads across both lanes. The train disappears and leaves us facing traffic solidly across two lanes in the opposite direction. I close my eyes and pray.Miraculously we find ourselves over the crossing and back in the left-hand lane.The people in India are unfailingly obliging and helpful. We learn that a tuk-tuk driver will never admit that he doesn't know the way."Why do you keep stopping to talk to people? Don't you know the way?""I must be sure to be delivering you safely. I am your son."Now, before I complain about South African traffic, I think of India. Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za