The 23-year-old South African Open champion is in the throes of a ceiling-lifting breakout season and many expect him to soon walk into the hall of arrivals populated by older, much-garlanded countrymen."I don't feel there is huge expectation," he said this week from Dubai where he is competing in the DP World Championships. "The only way that can stay that way is if I stay the way I am."When people ask for a picture and an autograph my reaction is 'really?' I'm just a 23-year-old little kid from Pretoria who doesn't think of himself in any other way. Nedbank Golf Challenge mixed bag of birdies, albatrosses ... and mambas"If you are too worried about expectations and what people think about you, you are going to put yourself under tremendous pressure."All I can do is try to shoot the lowest number possible. If I do that, whether 62 or 82, I'm happy."Endowed with cast-iron belief, Stone does put pressure on himself to put in the hard yards."I think guys like Zander Lombard and Haydn Porteous have more talent than me. I feel I really have to work my butt off."I'm not that kind of guy that can show up on a Thursday morning not having had a practice round and do well."For a young man he has remarkable clarity. That's so because he didn't fall far from the pin."My father [Kevin] and Ernie [Els] grew up playing junior and amateur golf together. Ernie has always kept a watchful eye over me and has taken me under his wing from time to time. I spent a lot of time with him back in my amateur days. I played a practice round with him at the Open and the PGA Championship this year."My dad gives me a kick in the butt every now and then when I get complacent and lazy. He gets me fired up and going."Just last week Stone senior nudged him along. "Obviously my form of late has been a bit bad," said Stone, who last week finished 69th out of the 72-man field at Sun City. "Watching Alex Noren win last week I said to my dad I just feel I should have competed just a little bit more because my game feels great.He said, 'Let's look at it in hindsight. If on January 1 you were offered the SA Open, you'll play in two Majors, in the Olympics and be in the top 60 players and make it to the Race to Dubai, would you take it?' Golf can add years to your life"Obviously! That is the little kick in the butt that you need from time to time."His ambition to improve is constant. Stone is almost self-deprecating when assessing his own game, suggesting "everything" needs attention."You can never get to your maximum potential. I'm a fantastic ball striker by my standards, I've been told I've got a terrific swing. It is consistent but I need to make sure it gets better. You'll probably find in December that I will spend a lot of time on my short game trying to get it up to the European Tour standard."Coupled with that he has distinct goals. "Next year I would like to get into the world top 50. I need to get that first European win [on European soil]. That is a massive goal for me."He is loving life on tour. Earlier this week in Dubai he was part of the Tour's impressive 2min 10sec mannequin challenge. He had to sweat."I was having my hamstring stretched by the physio. It was absolutely a killer. It took us a couple of takes [by the camera] to get out of the locker room. My right hamstring now feels amazing."He also loves life at home where he has a girlfriend, a golden retriever and a Scottish terrier. But that's not all. "I'm an absolute petrol head. I have a 1973 VW Beetle and a new Ford Mustang. Between those two I'm happy. It's about the drive."