SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)It's a perfect week. And if it's not revealing its magic just yet, wait for a fabulous Sagittarian new moon to reveal its possibilities. Obviously the road won't be as smooth as you might hope, but that's just so you can acquire an ounce of discipline on the way to success. You may find your needs change along the way, but that will give you a chance to edit your list of dreams. It's all about you.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)You couldn't be more desirable if you were dipped in chocolate. The goddess of gorgeousness is still here, and you're positively glowing with the effects. The rest of the planets are messing with your head, pushing you in all directions. All that's required are a few decisions, and you'll be in control and smiling. Right now, you need some fun. Give yourself permission to have a social life.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Love is high on your list. Passion and courage are close by. The danger is that you could dash off with a stranger and abandon your life without a backward glance ... until the doubts and fears march in. You're tougher than this. If a soap opera is what you're after, that's fine. But if you're in search of genuine contentment, the chance is being handed to you on a platter. Don't be sidetracked.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)There are fantastic career opportunities now but if you're exhausted you'll miss them all. Just because everyone else seems to be moving faster than you, doesn't mean you're being left behind. You're slower by nature. Your instincts are extraordinary, and the moment you start listening to your heart you'll get back on your path. Your goal is happiness. But you need to take care of yourself.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Your irresistible charm doesn't seem to have worked and your relationships are on hold. Don't take it personally. The lovers appear to have problems of their own. Try listening to what's not being said. Or redirect your attention to the career. Tuesday's new moon brings opportunities to expand your options. Also check your finances. There'll be good chances to make a little extra, if you focus.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Don't let those old ghosts drag you off course. There's a new moon on Tuesday; your moment to tie the ends and cut them loose. The funny thing about loose ends is that they always want to hang in until the bitterest of ends. For you, it's about courage - about calling in the big guns and blowing the spooks away. There's a new project waiting for your call. Trust yourself to make choices.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)The universe applauds action, so when the new moon opens unexpected doors you can saunter through with renewed vigour. Until then, watch and learn. The planets have an interesting plan for your career. It's not a plan you can direct, so any interference will simply throw you off course. You dislike predictability, so instead of sabotaging what you have, make the new energies feel welcome.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Tuesday's new moon is a gift; a source of strength; an opening to love, with access to renewed energy. The trick is to find the courage to go with whatever's offered. It won't be easy. It's time to trust in your destiny and keep going, no matter what. The moon, your planet, has been busy making sure you get what you deserve. Your job is to believe, with all your heart, that you deserve the best.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)We were never supposed to be victims. If you've become one, stand up at once and do something about it. It's a week for emotional freedom - you can choose how to respond and how to feel. If you start each day with an expectation of success, your universe will oblige. It's already happening, which is why your home has become everyone's hangout. Keep some space for yourself.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)The year's almost over and you're a basket case. Climb off that high horse and look around. You'll notice you're not the only one with something to stress about. Stress is a state of mind - which means it can be changed any time you're ready. Understand that you don't have to fix the world by yourself and that the planet can turn without your help. Even you deserve some time off.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Big things should be happening now so take your pick and make a wish list. Travel, creative projects, love, spiritual discoveries, money - all these and more are on the tree. Your job is to handle your options with style. Prosperity is your word for the week. So if there are dramas, charm your way through them. Remind yourself that it's your turn to collect. Lose the stubborn streak.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)If there's a deal to be made, make it this week. Better still, get someone older and wiser to make it for you. Handled well, these energies could walk away with all the prizes. Remember to finish what you've started first, though. The new you will need every ounce of your attention. And sure, pick up a few friends along the way. You can never have too many of those.