You seldom find the trifecta of good food, good design and good atmosphere locked down in one venue. Whether it's glaring lights, bad music, or no effort at d cor, the city often disappoints on the foodie scene.Which is why chef James Diack is such a breath of fresh air. Owner of Coobs in Parkhurst, The National in Parktown North and now The Federal in Melville, he seems to effortlessly pull off the gargantuan task of opening a successful restaurant time and again.Coobs and The National opened in late 2012 and September 2015 respectively, and having opened just last month, The Federal is the latest addition to Melville's fast-reviving 7th Street.Jozi restaurant champions the 'social grazing' food trend"The Federal provides me with an opportunity to give new customers a great meal, but also my existing customers another option," says Diack. "Coobs remains the refined dining experience, The National is a refined food truck of sorts, and The Federal becomes a comfort pit-stop away from home."The menu at the "ethical American diner" boasts everything from hot dogs to burgers, salads, Southern-fried chicken and all-day breakfast waffle stacks. Not to mention a decadent array of desserts, such as pumpkin and s'mores pies.The "ethical" bit comes from the fact that as much as possible on the menu hails from the family farm, Brightside in the Magaliesberg, where Diack grew up.His mother, Janet, is passionate about farming and supplying her son's restaurants, ensuring the food is all organic and the meats ethically sourced. The farm has two 3ha veggie gardens, and also supplies ricotta, acorn-fed wild boar, lamb, duck and even the odd pigeon or guinea fowl."As with my two other bistros, Brightside supplies The Federal with 90% of its ingredients. We'll now be able to use the vegetables, produce and cuts of meat that we currently don't use either at Coobs or The National," says Diack.What he can't find on the farm, he gets from local suppliers who share the Diacks' passion for sustainability. As much as possible is recycled; for example, organic coffee grounds get sent straight to the farm's compost heap.</img>James Diack outside his new Joburg eatery, The Federal. Image: Katy Harrison Photography James Diack outside his new Joburg eatery, The Federal. Image: Katy Harrison Photography The d cor at The Federal, with its original pressed ceilings, is as enticing as the menu. But what's most enticing about the restaurant, and is a common thread running through all of Diack's eateries, is the friendly and casual atmosphere."This restaurant is about soul food, happy food, smart food," he says. "I want my guests to sit here, eat good food and feel happy." THE LOWDOWN Vibe: Casual, unpretentious and authenticPrice: Approx R250 for two coursesWhat to wear: Whatever you feel comfortable inWho will like it: Anyone looking for comfort food and a great vibeHot tip: Save space for a pumpkin pie dessertVisit: Corner of 2nd Avenue and 7th Street, Melville, Johannesburg. Call 010-900-4876. SCORECARD: 16/20 Food: 4/5Ambiance: 5/5Service: 5/5Value for money: 2/5