Brother and sister Edmund Pratt, 67, and Edith Joubert, 60, are now trying to put together the pieces of the puzzle that is their lives.Pratt was adopted before his sister was born, and in the 1970s - after learning that he had a sibling - he began searching for Joubert. The pair finally met two weeks ago."It was incredible to meet each other and very emotional. I cannot believe my sister has been in Richards Bay and I was in Empangeni all these years," said Pratt. Helping to raise domestic worker's child a delicate matterJoubert, who is still overwhelmed by the news, said she knew she had a brother, but was under the impression he was in England. "I am happy to be reunited with Eddie," she said, adding that they had a lot of catching up to do.The spark which led to the pair finally meeting came from Pratt's granddaughter Cara Morris, 11, who started to trace her family tree for a school project last month.Her mother, Debbie, roped in her cousin, Michelle Allis, who is a genealogist in England, to help trace Pratt's history.Allis traced Pratt's biological father's family back to 1792 and, in the process, discovered that Pratt's father had married - and had a second child, a girl.Another of Pratt's daughters, Chantal McNally, said that once Allis and Debbie Morris had established the name, birth date and the father's name of this second child - Edith - the family started searching Facebook. There they discovered "that she lived in Richards Bay and had mutual friends with me", McNally said. So she got Joubert's number from one of the friends and called."She was very friendly and when I asked if she was adopted, she said that her birth father was Edmund Thomas Warren, the same as my dad's [father's name]. When I told my dad the wonderful news, he cried. Edith then spoke to my dad and there were more happy tears," said McNally.The next day she arranged for the siblings to meet. My dad recalls his dad coming to the train station when he was about seven years old to tell him he had a sister and [to] give him a budgie "There were more happy tears and everyone trying to fit a lifetime of information into a few hours. It was like we have known her all our life," said McNally."We all just connected straight away ... The rest is now a journey of getting to know each other and putting the pieces of the puzzle together. They are both a bit overwhelmed."McNally said that, from the age of one, Pratt had been in and out of a children's home. Some hate their neighbours ... 'Threat' over Diwali shows neighbourly love not enjoyed by all"When his mother could afford to keep him she had him [stay with her], and when she couldn't she would return him."He was adopted in 1955 by our grandparents - his adoptive mother was a nurse who had nursed him while he had polio."McNally said: "Edith knew her father, but did not live with him."Now the family needs to establish whether the siblings have the same mother."Little is known of my dad's mother, but our search will go on," McNally said. "My dad recalls his dad coming to the train station when he was about seven years old to tell him he had a sister and [to] give him a budgie. His adoptive father ensured that his father was not to see him again."Dad had a happy life with his adoptive parents and siblings."Cara, a Grade 5 pupil at Plettenberg Primary in the Western Cape, said: "I am just excited that I now have more cousins to meet. We usually go to Durban for Christmas, but decided to spend it in Plett this year. I now wish we were going to Durban so we could meet [Edith]."pillayt@sundaytimes.co.za