The Grade 11 pupil is passionate about bodybuilding, and on Saturday he placed third in his category in the Summer Superbodies competition. He'd been training hard, practising his poses with his coach, Ryan Manthe.Born with sickle-cell anaemia, a condition in which the body produces misshapen red blood cells, Mutombo came to South Africa with his family from the Democratic Republic of the Congo when he was two for medical treatment.His disorder affects his arms, legs, hands and shoulders, but that hasn't stopped him from taking part in a sport the exponents of which are characterised by physical strength and perfection.Era of 'cut and paste' humans edges closer"I love having a great physique and looking good. But it's about more than looking all sexy for the girls," he said."I use bodybuilding to inspire people, rather than have them say: 'Ag shame, I feel sorry for him, give him R10'. Growing up, wherever I was, people would just hand me money. I didn't want people to feel sorry for me, I wanted people to be inspired."Mutombo's older brother, Kalala, also born with sickle-cell anaemia, died two years ago.Mutombo lives at Kids' Haven, an orphanage in Benoni on the East Rand. It has outdoor and indoor gyms.But he does most of his workouts at a health and fitness centre co-owned by his trainer, Manthe, a former bodybuilder."Bodybuilding is not body, it's mind. You need to have a strong mind to be able to adopt this lifestyle because it takes discipline, strict routine and willpower like you won't believe," said Manthe."His condition is quite hectic, but I want him to lead a fulfilled life. He should do motivational speaking," said Manthe.As a child, Mutombo found that he wasn't very good at the sports his peers enjoyed so he drifted towards bodybuilding. He was 12 when he started training on his own and began taking it really seriously when he was 16.He trains three days a week: legs and "glutes" on Monday, chest and arms on Wednesday, back and shoulders on Thursday."It comes down to discipline. When you study, you study. When you train, you train. I want to challenge myself physically in the sense of how much can I take and how much can I give? It's not just about looking strong, but [about finding out] 'What can you do with all that strength?'"His favourite songs to work out to are Lose Yourself and Till I Collapse, both by Eminem. Their message about approaching your passions full-throttle resonates with him."If you're going to do something halfway, you're being mediocre - it's a waste of your time, it's a waste of your life. It's time you're never going to get back," Mutombo said.</img>Caleb combs his hair with a blue brush behind a curtain, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb combs his hair with a blue brush behind a curtain, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb is coached on how to pose on stage, by his mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in the days leading up to him competing in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb is coached on how to pose on stage, by his mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in the days leading up to him competing in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb waits backstage, with other competitors, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb waits backstage, with other competitors, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb jokes around behind a curtain, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb jokes around behind a curtain, before he is set to go on stage and compete in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, held at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb trains his legs. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb trains his legs. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb is seen walking past his mentor and trainer Ryan Manthe (picture on wall). His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb is seen walking past his mentor and trainer Ryan Manthe (picture on wall). His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb trains his body. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb trains his body. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb is seen leaving training at The Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, Owner Ryan Manthe, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES Caleb is seen leaving training at The Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, Owner Ryan Manthe, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES </img>Caleb trains Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMESCaleb trains Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni. His mentor and personal trainer, Ryan Manthe, of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre in Benoni, has taken Caleb under his wing. Caleb went up and competed on stage in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding category, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. Caleb weighs 37Kg's. Image: ALON SKUY/THE TIMES