SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)A massive supermoon swoops in tomorrow, knocking all your relationships on their heads and demanding a rematch. Take your time with this. Every relationship has its own purpose and lessons. Just because people drive you nuts, doesn't mean you should hoof them out. Ask yourself what they're doing in your life, and whether you can achieve the same results in a better way.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)What's happening? Have you taken it into your head to join the corporate world? Or open an investment portfolio? Or learn to play golf? Have you become success-driven - placing money and power above love and happiness? Well, it might not be a bad thing. Perhaps you'll master some practical skills and even learn to live in the real world. Next year will see the return of your old self.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)The goddess of love, beauty, romance and assorted goodies has just swept into your bedroom. The admirers are queueing up. Turn the energy to your advantage, even if you're not in search of new love. Right now, everyone's so bewitched by your magic they'll refuse you nothing. So get your contracts signed or deals sorted. Money's improving, so look out for new opportunities.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Tomorrow's supermoon clobbers your career, sending it spinning in a different direction. Not that you'll necessarily have to follow it, but you will need to take a detached look at how you make your living. Does your career suit you morally? Creatively? Financially? Change is not something you handle easily, but when you must, you must. Knowing what you want is half the battle won.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Romance of the poetic, impractical variety is frolicking in your heart. And when the supermoon hits tomorrow, you'll have to crush the urge to pack up and hurtle off to Outer Mongolia in search of true love. In short, the energies are madder than usual and you'll have difficulty holding onto your sanity. You could, of course, surrender to the cosmic vibes and see where they take you.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)The planets are going nuts, shifting your world view, attacking your beliefs and messing with your health. Confused? Perfect. Tomorrow's supermoon yanks you out of your ego and into your super-conscious. Suddenly your decisions are being made from your soul, without a thought for what anyone else thinks. Don't waste the moments. Start with your spiritual beliefs.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Tomorrow's supermoon is insisting on changes in your life. You might have to drag yourself out of your rut. These new energies only want the best for you. What's needed from you is a list of requirements. Boredom, laziness, arrogance, addiction to comfort zones: none of these are good enough reasons to ignore the call. As soon as you take action, there'll be direction from the planets.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)While the supermoon swoops in with a large wooden spoon, the goddess of love is taking a brief pause in your life. Best idea: leave the moon and her madness to herself and stick with the pause. Everything you've been working towards has already been set in motion, or not. This week, let go of your goals and let the cosmos have its way. Trust is required and a belief that you deserve the best.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)The moon is your astral entity, so when there's a supermoon - full and determined - you'll know all about it. No point making any plans. Nothing will be as expected, and no life will be left untouched. Your only task is to release that insane control you think you have on your life and stand aside as the energies rush past. Make a list of desires and read them out to the moon goddess.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)There's only one reason you're not finding what you're looking for: you have no idea what that is. But now that the planets have taken the reins, you'll find there's more urgency in your search. Two options: grab every opportunity or spend some alone time asking yourself who you really are. Start with the basic questions. Career? Relationships? Beliefs? The planets want you much happier.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)There's a new energy in your love life and it's confusing you more than you'd like. Ask these questions: what is intimacy and is it worth the risk; what is the difference between a friend and a lover; what are you so afraid of? Start with those. Remember, being open to love means being open to pain. But it also brings a chance of real joy. The word "control" doesn't figure anywhere in this.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)You may think you're in the middle of a crisis, but the truth is you're witnessing the start of something new and exciting. You're the type who needs some order to feel safe. Focus on one area of your life at a time as the big picture will overwhelm you. Pack a bag. Tomorrow's supermoon wants a shift in perspective - and how better to achieve that than with a shift in location. For a start.