What was the inspiration behind Hemma?Hemma was conceived at a time when birch ply was first being introduced into the local marketplace, and we decided to take advantage of the many positive aspects of this material. Meet the Makers: Liani & Jan Douglas of Douglas & CompanyOur main inspiration was to create well-made pieces at an accessible price, and to this end we have embraced all the best aspects of digital production techniques.Did you always see yourselves as entrepreneurs?We are probably creatives first and entrepreneurs by default. Creativity and business aren't necessarily the best bedfellows, and finding a middle road has been part of our growth.Driving the efficiencies of production has always been critical for us and is what keeps us firmly rooted in the business aspects of Hemma.How would you describe your design style?Our emphasis on clean lines and functionality, and the use of birch ply as our primary material, plants us pretty squarely in the Scandinavian camp, which we are very comfortable with.What is good design for you?In our view, a product or environment that communicates its function in a clear and engaging way is good design. There is a beauty to be found in function as much as in appearance, and finding that balance is our challenge.A design tip for our readers?Appreciation of design is hugely subjective, but buying for longevity would be a good starting point.</img>Hemma Furnitures' trestle table is height adjustable, making it practical as well as stylish. Image: Supplied Hemma Furnitures' trestle table is height adjustable, making it practical as well as stylish. Image: Supplied If you could have four guests at your Hemma dinner table, who would they be?Terence Conran for a critique of our range; Philippe Starck for tips on how to build an empire; Japanese designer Rei Kawakubo for her way of defying conventional thinking in design, and Zaha Hadid for her unique take on how we interact with objects.If Elon Musk were to arrive unannounced, we would find him a place at the table.What do you wish designers were doing more of in South Africa?Finding lasting solutions to the issues around sustainable low-cost and low-impact living. These are becoming more urgent by the day, and designers are well placed to facilitate change.We have a wealth of creative talent within our borders, all of whom should be looking to invest in their country and their marketplace by contributing to this issue on some level.</img>Hemma specialises in Scandi-slick designs like this bedside pedestal. Image: Supplied Hemma specialises in Scandi-slick designs like this bedside pedestal. Image: SuppliedWhat do you wish designers were doing less of in South Africa?There is a perception that good design is only for the very well-heeled. Don't add to it.Where to next for Hemma?Expanding our offering is a priority, and we are hoping to introduce new techniques and finishes in the near future. Visit Hemma.co.za