What's going on in your classrooms?Learning is going on in classrooms.The national department says they are battlegrounds.I've got almost 2.3million learners and 87,000 teachers. Less than 500 teachers are misbehaving. That does not mean classrooms are battlegrounds.Five hundred teachers attacking each other in front of pupils must horrify you, surely?That's nationally, not only in this province.Hasn't Gauteng been identified as one of the worst affected provinces?Only because we've got systems to identify the problem.Do you agree it is a serious problem?It's a worrying concern, indeed.Why such a lack of professionalism?The higher institutions need to assist us. They complain that students who pass matric are not ready for higher institutions. We are complaining that some of the teachers they hand over to us are not ready to teach.Why are you recruiting them?Because it's a very important profession. You can't have a classroom without a teacher, so you have to recruit whatever is available.Are you saying you are forced to hire teachers who are not ready to teach?Surely not. My largest expenditure is on teacher development. You can imagine if people have been trained ... and we then have to spend more money training them, we have to solve some problems somewhere.With stricter selection processes?We've got committed educators out there who are accountable. But unfortunately there will be those few who will not listen to their principals, who will attack other teachers, who will behave otherwise.Why are principals not coping?They are. Remember, they're teachers, not social workers. These problems need experts. That is why we are pleading to those with the money that we need psycho-social services in our schools So why are teachers running amok?I've got systems and I'm proud of those systems. If a teacher misbehaves there's a 24-hour disciplinary committee manned by a professional prosecutor, and a disciplinary hearing. So we're in a position to address those cases.How long does it take?Within three weeks we finalise the charge sheet and the teacher appears before a disciplinary hearing and judgment is passed.And then they're suspended?No, we don't want them sitting at home on pay. We place them in a safer place. In a district office or where we believe we can utilise their services.</img>Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says teacher on teacher violence in Gauteng is a worrying concern. Image: Vathiswa Ruselo Sowetan/Sunday World Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi says teacher on teacher violence in Gauteng is a worrying concern. Image: Vathiswa Ruselo Sowetan/Sunday World Away from pupils?Yes.What does it take for a teacher to be fired?If it's a schedule 1 crime it's immediate.What crimes are those?Rape, corporal punishment, abscondment from work for 31 days, sexual harassment.How many have been dismissed for such crimes?I can come back to you with those details, I've got them.If your systems are so effective why are your classrooms becoming battlegrounds?I dispute that statement. But we are part of society, so we are affected by what is happening in society.Do your principals have enough power to act?We're a public institution, there are processes within law how to manage this thing. They can't manage it outside the regulations. If you don't manage your child and hand that child over for us to manage on your behalf it becomes very difficult How restrictive are the regulations?We're living in a democracy. To me they are not restrictive. We just have to be sure they are applied fairly and equally. I meet all the principals once a quarter and they've never said they need assistance in terms of enforcing law and order. What they need is personal development, acceptable class sizes ...That's not why teachers attack each other, is it?The situation is under control, we are managing it.Are you saying the Department of Basic Education is out of touch?If you've got 500 teachers misbehaving nationally, you can't say we're in a state of war. I dispute that.Why are pupils attacking teachers?It's upbringing.Are you blaming their parents?They come from families, so if they behave the way they behave we have to go to the root cause. And from where I stand, that's the family background. If you don't manage your child and hand that child over for us to manage on your behalf it becomes very difficult. We deal with learners who arrive late, abuse drugs, abuse alcohol.Do your teachers have skills to cope?Remember, they're teachers, not social workers. These problems need experts. That is why we are pleading to those with the money that we need psycho-social services in our schools. Teachers are not appropriately trained to deal with these matters.What message are you sending when you award a bursary to a student leader who publicly worships Hitler?We didn't. We gave a bursary to a student who has financial difficulties and requested assistance like any other learner. We don't screen on the basis of what people say in public, we grant opportunities on the basis of academic excellence. But if that student has made statements that are inappropriate, we reserve the right to review the bursary, and that's what we're doing.