"The club important as it will enable the local wine industry to be more racially representative and allow the "space" to be truly part of the rainbow nation," says Gregory Mutambe, BLACC chairman."It's not a racially segregated organisation but aims to allow black people of all financial means to learn more about wine," adds deputy chairman Luvo Ntezo.We asked the five founding sommeliers to pair wines with dishes from a top Cape Town restaurant, Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach, pick the most versatile wine varietals and more.It's official: wine tastes better with cheese, say scientistsHead sommelier, One&amp;Only, and BLACC deputy chairmanI tasted my very first wine, Uitkyk Carlonet, when I was a pool waiter at Steenberg Wine Estate. It was my first job.I've been privileged to have experienced making wine with winemaker Warren Ellis of Neil Ellis Wines.The most versatile wine is pinot noir; it pairs well with many dishes from fresh fish to pasta.Most difficult pairing? Eggs are very tricky, yet cheese is so easy.The perfect pairing for Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach's grilled crayfish with peri peri sauce? I went with something a little different and chose Sxollie Cider, which reminds me of the very first cider I tasted in Dorset, England. The Sxollie Golden Delicious pairs so well with the spicy peri peri sauce.I urge people to get adventurous when drinking wine, and try many of the lesser-known South African wines, like the Bizoe Henri tta by Rikus Neethling Wines from Stellenbosch.If I could have any wine in the world it would have to be the Domaine de la Roman e-Contifrom one of the world's greatest wine producers - and also one of its most expensive! Head sommelier, Taj Cape Town, and BLACC deputy secretary-general The very first wine I ever tasted was Steenberg Sauvignon Blanc Reserve 2002.I had the opportunity to produce a sauvignon blanc wine at Steenberg Estate in 2008 and was involved in the blending of the house wine offered at Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel during my tenure there.The perfect pairing for Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach's fresh mussels in a fragrant coconut, lemongrass, ginger and coriander broth? I love mussels and like to pair them with a medium- to full-bodied white blend. The DeMorgenzon Maestro White 2014 ticks all the boxes. The most versatile grape varietal is chenin blanc; it's used in different wine styles, including brandy, MCC and dessert wines.If I could have any wine in the world I'd love to taste one of the earliest vintages of Winston Churchill's favourite champagne, Pol Roger. How to pick a wine that ll work with chocolateHead sommelier, Nobu restaurant, and BLACC treasurer-generalMost difficult pairing? Pairing wine with fish is easy but fresh asparagus is a challenge. For the festive season I urge South Africans to try the Doran Vineyards chenin blanc from one of the lesser-known wine regions, Voor Paardeberg . The most versatile wine is chardonnay.On my bucket list is to taste a First Growth Bordeaux wine, Chateau Petrus . Ice or no ice in wine? Many South Africans request ice for their wine, which I don't understand as ice dilutes the wine, losing flavour and intensity.The perfect pairing for Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach's grand salmon salad? De Grendel Ros 2015 is a perfect summer wine for a delicious salmon salad. The best part of my job is tasting new wines and learning on the job. The worst? Cleaning glassware before service! Head sommelier, LA Colombe restaurant, and BLACC secretary-generalMost difficult pairing? I love pairing food and wine as it can be quite magical. It's easy to match wine to meat and fish dishes but when it comes to olives and garlic it's very difficult! I had my very first glass of bubbly a Pieter Cruythoff Bru when I was working at Bar Bar Black Sheep restaurant in Riebeek Kasteel.The most versatile grape varietal is chenin blanc, which is used in MCCs, sherry, brandies, still and dessert wines. The perfect pairing for Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach's chalmar sirloin with mushrooms? A good wine to match the earthiness of the mushrooms is the Rustenberg Peter Barlow 2010, which is slightly spicy with rich dark berry notes that make a good marriage with the meat. I was lucky enough to have the opportunity to make chenin blanc wine at Fraternity at Antebellum wine estate in the Swartland.I urge my guests to try some of the lesser-known wines, like the Oldenburg Cabernet Franc from the Banghoek Valley near Stellenbosch. Head sommelier, Twelve Apostles Hotel &amp; Spa, and BLACC chairmanMatching food and wine can be difficult, especially artichokes and egg yolk. The easiest is poultry and pork as they pair well with both white and red wines. The most versatile wine is pinot noir; it works particularly well with food and is very versatile and can be a light or full-bodied wine. The perfect pairing for Grand Africa Cafe &amp; Beach's grand seafood pizza? The Delaire Graff Cabernet Franc Ros is a perfect pair for the seafood pizza. Cabernet franc is underrated yet the most pure way to make wine. It offers fresh acidity, which makes a good balance with seafood. The Grand Cafe is on the beach and it's a great summer wine with a moderate alcohol level of 13%. The first wine I drank was actually a port and as a first experience it was sweet and therefore accessible to my virgin palate. I love my job as I get to travel and meet great people all over the globe.