Being designers, Jo Theron, Shannon Davis and Kirsten Townsend started with the first-impression factor when they launched their Pimp My Street Kitchen project.The designers, working in a collaboration they have named Being Frank, have chosen three women street vendors in Joburg as the beneficiaries of the project. The aim is to help the vendors develop a brand and to upgrade their equipment and facilities.Jozi food trucks leading the wheel meal revolution"Being Frank recognised that although we may not have the financial capacity or resources to help these vendors, we are blessed with a wealth of design talent which we could use to transform unidentifiable operations into branded businesses," says Theron.The designers spent months researching the industry, and after meeting countless vendors, they developed strong relationships with three of them: Alitha "Ali" Ndlovu sells vetkoek, curries and stews from her Parkmore trailer, and hopes to trade at the popular food market one day. Busi Priscilla Khumalo does pap with steak or chicken, beef stew and oxhead from her trailer in Rivonia. Johanna Ramufhi - known as Lady Jo because she is descended from Venda royalty - serves steak, chicken, stews, spinach, pap and salad on Jan Smuts Avenue in Hyde Park. She changes her menu depending on what's available daily."By offering our time, we are able to afford these businesswomen the opportunity to brand their trailers," says Townsend. She adds that Being Frank also likes the idea of beautifying the streets of Johannesburg through design."Instead of blending into the landscape, these trailers will hopefully stand out and attract more business for the three ladies."Being Frank plans to go beyond simple branding. "That would have been foolish, the equivalent of putting a plaster on a bullet wound," says Townsend.She said the three vendors were poorly equipped, and needed to have health-and-safety-compliant food trailers, complete with cooking facilities, refrigeration, access to water, deep fryers and everything else needed to run a catering business.</img>Proposed design for Alitha "Ali" Ndlovu's Parkmore trailer. Image: Being FrankProposed design for Alitha "Ali" Ndlovu's Parkmore trailer. Image: Being FrankOf course, this comes with funding challenges, and Being Frank have opted to crowd source the project using the Indiegogo platform. To attract donations, the designers have created a rewards system - everyone who contributes will receive a stylish gift such as postcards, tote bags and head wraps, all featuring elements of the three designs created for the trailers."Each of us has built relationships with all the ladies," says Townsend. "Each lady has a unique story of how they came to be where they are now, what they would each like for their business, and how this will effect change in their lives." The goal of this initiative goes beyond branding and new trailer kitchens; it aims to help the three vendors grow their ventures into sustainable businesses by improving their skills in entrepreneurship and cooking. Being Frank challenges successful entrepreneurs and chefs to contribute their time and effort to the project. For info or to donate, e-mail info@beingfrank.co.za or pledge your donation via Beingfrank.co.za