While his blistering 64 earned him a handy three-shot lead going into today's final round, he isn't quite out of sight. South Africa's Louis Oosthuizen lurks three shots back.In anticipation of a big storm the field set off with simultaneous starts on the first and the 10th yesterday.Staying dry and out of the lightning's way were the main objectives, but Wang provided some pyrotechnics of his own. Wang, a co-leader after the opening round, set about the Gary Player Country Club with every intention of not overstaying his visit. Flawless Wang surges ahead at Nedbank Challenge in Sun CityFour birdies over the first six holes propelled him into the joint lead.Four under over the outward nine, Wang almost recorded the second albatross of the week at the 10th.When his round suddenly lacked incisive approach play halfway through the back nine, Wang remained unnerved with the putter."I hit it really well today (yesterday)," he said, arguably the understatement of the day."It was fantastic. I am so happy that I shot 64. I am happy that I didn't drop a shot."Due to the windy conditions he started his round with modest expectations. "When I started I just tried to make par. I got lucky," the 21-year-old said, giggling.While his drives seemed impervious to the wind, others struggled.Oosthuizen, who blazed a trail on Friday, showed encouraging signs early on. but things seemed to unravel on the ninth for the former Open champion. His tee shot ended in the rough to the left of the fairway, and with 202m to the pin he opted to attack the island green. He found the water, but, after a drop, made a ballsy approach to save par.The bogeys on 17 and 18 may yet prove costly but he is by no means out of it."Sixty-four around this course, even with no wind, is a great score," said Oosthuizen of Wang's effort.He described the wind as the most testing he has experienced in the Pilanesberg. "It was swirling today. It was so difficult to judge. That second shot on 17 was the toughest shot I think I had all season. It was right in between numbers for me and I had no idea where the wind was." Swede Noren takes the lead at the Nedbank Golf ChallengeHis strategy in the final round is simple. "You have to play your own game, especially when conditions are like this. I don't think you can look too much at what the other guys are doing. Do what you do around this golf course, and, if you get to 15, 16 then look at the scoreboard and decide if you need to go for a few more pins."If it is going to be as windy in the final round the back stretch is going to be really difficult."The challenge of Alex Noren of Sweden, the second-round leader, faded early. He found the bush off the tee at the third, which, as you'd expect, carried grave consequences.There was in fact an alert that a black mamba was doing the rounds on that hole, and, though Noren stayed clear of the peril, he had to settle for a paralysing double bogey.Birdies of course are the best antidote to bogeys and Noren pulled one back on the fifth, but his round never got going.England's Andy Sullivan left it late but played himself among the frontrunners with three consecutive birdies on the closing holes. He is one shot behind Oosthuizen.South Africa's Brendan Grace was another back nine mover to be five under for the tournament alongside Noren.They are a shot in front of Jaco van Zyl and another Swede, Henrik Stenson.