How often do you travel?Every day. Sometimes twice a day depending on if I need to get groceries. Thank goodness for automobiles.Earliest memory of travelling abroad?I travelled to the States when I was about five years old. My favourite part was California Pizza Kitchen because I was a little fat kid and food was all I cared about. Why SA is one of superstar Laura Mvula's favourite places What do you need for a perfect holiday?My buddies. I always believe it's not where you go, it's who you go with. Unless it's Sudan. I probably wouldn't go to Sudan with anyone right now.What's your favourite holiday destination?Italy, then Hermanus.Your most relaxing destination?Mauritius.Favourite restaurant?I would probably have to say anywhere with good steak.Favourite city?The City That Always Sleeps - Slaap Stad.Best holiday ever?I travelled around Europe in 2013. We went to some insane places including Mallorca, Malaga and Barcelona in Spain, Orvieto in Italy, and Edinburgh, Scotland. I'm not going to lie, I really do enjoy a good Hermanus vacation.</img>Orvieto in Italy is among Biderman-Pam s favourite places. Image: iStockOrvieto in Italy is among Biderman-Pam s favourite places. Image: iStockMost adventurous travel experience?Climbing up Mount Vesuvius, I lost my footing and started to fall. And I was screaming and falling and there was snow everywhere and I couldn't see anything. And then I realised, "Wait a minute. Haven't you been losing your mind at Rocking the Daisies for the past three days?" I was fine. I haven't even been to Mount Vesuvius.Favourite hotel?Number Sixteen in South Kensington, London.Best piece of travel advice?If you can't speak the language, just speak the accent. They love that.What's your one travel essential?My passport. Otherwise you can't go anywhere. Oh, and a good book. In case you get stranded on a desert island and you need to start a fire.Where next?I'm going to gym now if you must know. Holiday-wise, I'm off to Tel Aviv in April. Cannot wait! Glen Biderman-Pam will return in the smash hit 'Bad Jews' from December 13 at The Fugard in Cape Town.