Isn't your call a bit na ve?That's where I have a problem with the media. It never represents the views people are expressing accurately.So you're not calling on Zuma to step down?Among these stalwarts there are those who have called for the resignation of the president. There are those who have called for the top six to go and others for the whole executive to go.Those who have made the call believe that the president should, based on his own conscience, say that he will withdraw.Is Zuma the ideal person to appoint a judge who will lead inquiry into state capture? Does the president have a conscience?I think it depends on the president. But that is only one part of it.The overall thrust of the stalwarts is that what is happening now must stop. We cannot have an ANC government that finds itself on the wrong side of the constitution of the country and the laws of the country. The stalwarts are saying, allow us to facilitate a consultative conference which will clean up the system and make sure that by the time you get into the elections you elect leaders who will serve the people rather than their own interests.Is there any likely prospect of your call being acted on?The ANC has no choice. They either hear this call, or they will be managing the ANC's own demise. The ANC will lose an election if they continue on this track. What we are saying is, change course.Is your motivation to save the ANC or the country?It's to save the country.Is it in the interests of the country to save the ANC from electoral defeat?We are not trying to save the ANC from electoral defeat. We are saving it from itself, so that it can serve the people better.But you are warning that if it doesn't change course it will lose the elections?Oh, yes. If they don't do something they won't be there.What ANC NEC members say about Zuma...So the prospect of electoral defeat in 2019 is what is concentrating your minds?No, sir. You are getting it wrong. The minds of the veterans are about the people of South Africa. Not about the party.It is not for the sake of winning an election. This is not the critical issue. The critical issue is, are you going to be serving the people? If you are not going to serve the people then you shouldn't be there.Would it serve the interests of the people for the ANC to win the next elections?If it maintains the culture and traditions that gave us this constitution we have and the laws that we have.Without this culture in the ANC is it in the interests of the country for it to continue to rule?They can't continue to rule the country if they don't change, because it won't happen. They won't be there. That's our point. The people won't vote for them.Is there enough time for the ANC to change its culture before 2019?That's up to the ANC. They need to renew the leadership and put in leadership people who have credibility, whom the people will believe in.How can this happen before 2019?Set up a mechanism to call for a consultative conference, get the people of South Africa to engage with what needs to be done to clean up the situation, fix the branches so that they're not captured and bought to serve other interests ...It's a mammoth ask, isn't it?Yes, but if it's not done, that's it.Isn't the entire party too compromised to fix itself so quickly?No, I would say the leadership are compromised and corrupted and have failed the party and the people, but the majority of the ANC don't agree with this. Something wonderful emerges from this terrible timeAren't you being na ve to expect the leadership to end their careers?It's the people who must end their careers. If they don't, then by 2019 they won't have careers anyway. That's the reality. If they don't take it seriously then the people of South Africa will deal with it.That's how democracy works, isn't it?Yes, that's what we are talking about. We are democrats.Should the ANC support the vote of no confidence in the president this week?I wouldn't want to go into that because that's real party politics. It's a different matter altogether.If you believe the president is damaging the country ...?The ANC itself must be the one that leads that process, not an opposition party.So you think the ANC should propose a vote of no confidence in the president?It is only the ANC that can do that. But they don't need to do a vote of no confidence in parliament.Isn't your call for change ultimately about protecting your own legacies?No, it's not protecting legacies. The stalwarts paid a price for South Africa to be where it is and we are not going to allow any individual to capture it.Haven't you left it a bit late?No. I've been on it all the time. Read my books, go back into history, you'll find me there.