Eskom boss Brian Molefe sparked a Twitter storm this week when he responded to claims in former public protector Thuli Madonsela's state capture report that phone records revealed he had visited the Gupta compound on several occasions."There's a shebeen there, two streets away from the Gupta[s]. I will not admit or deny that I've gone to the shebeen. But there is a shebeen there," he said.The jury is still out on whether he was joking, but the comment hit a nerve with corruption-weary South Africans, who quickly decided it was too good an opportunity to pass up.Soon #SaxonwoldShebeen was trending.Then the memes began flooding social media.Next came a dedicated @StateShebeen handle on Twitter, followed by tongue-in-cheek reviews of the mystery pub. There was even a pin on Google Maps. Eskom strikes back, saying Madonsela is destroying itFacebook user Collin McLellan posted to Jozi Restaurants: "Last night we tried the #SaxonwoldShebeen for something different. There was definitely a strong Indian influence and grilling all done on coal fires. Our hosts, Ajay and Atul, were quite captivating but seemed quite distracted by frequent phone calls to someone named Brian. Our waiter, Des ... took orders well. We had the PP cocktail and it definitely packed a punch. Strangely, no card facilities for some reason but they definitely were happy with cash ... PS I believe new branches opening in Waterkloof and Dubai."Even the City of Johannesburg got in on the act, tweeting: "Noting #SaxonwoldShebeen as one of the hidden gems of Jozi."Some suggested Molefe was installing a prepaid electricity unit at the compound.Memes included ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe DJing at the shebeen and a picture of President Jacob Zuma braaiing alongside Afrikaans singer Steve Hofmeyr at the shebeen.Tweets continued to pour in yesterday, with Nakkiran Sunassee saying: "Heading to ... @StateShebeen for some spicy cheese rotis."Rustum Kozain tweeted: "#SaxonwoldShebeen Breakfast Menu: Try our healthy Payola Granola. Only R600K. Or our famous Billionaire's Bangers and Golden Eggs: R600M."Saxonwold and Parkwood Residents Association chairwoman Tessa Turvey said she had received many calls from journalists looking for the shebeen in the area.The area has multimillion-rand mansions, streets lined with blooming jacaranda trees and plenty of private security guards."One resident who has lived here for 35 years said they were willing to make an affidavit swearing that there is no shebeen in Saxonwold," said Turvey.She said that if there was, she wouldn't mind dropping in for a drink.