The campaign by a private company aims to highlight and sell merchandise for Australia's Northern Territory, also commonly known as the NT.It's built around the catchphrase, "See you in the NT". Get it yet?Okay, picture it in massive font on posters, T-shirts, stickers and other paraphernalia for sale at ntofficial.com, spelt out as C*U in the N*T.And just in case you want to put that down to coincidence, the campaign rounds off with the phrase: "The top end, different from the bottom end."So there's no confusion there, mate.</img>Darwin is the capital of Australia's Northern Territory. Image: SuppliedDarwin is the capital of Australia's Northern Territory. Image: SuppliedThe Northern Territory, with Darwin as its capital, is a vast, arid and sparsely populated area in the top-north of the country.It's famed for its Outback desert landscapes and is home to one of the country's most famous landmarks, the sandstone monolith Uluru (Ayers Rock).It's also where, halfway between Darwin and Adelaide, you'll find the remote Outback town of Alice Springs, made famous in the 1994 drag-queen road-trip movie, The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.Though the company calls itself NT Official, it is anything but. It has come under fire from legitimate tourism officials, who say they plan to take legal action. It's not that they're prudes, though.A spokesperson from Tourism NT told the Daily Mail that the problem wasn't the lewd language but the misuse of their trademarked logo, which features on many of the souvenirs without the proper attribution.The spokesperson said they would send a letter to NT Official before launching legal action. They had so far been unable to reach the company.NT Official, however, said no one had contacted them and that they would continue delivering orders. They also have new designs in the pipeline. The hitchhiker's guide to the Australian OutbackEarlier this week, the group was closing in on 10,000 likes on its Facebook page.While most of the comments delight in the creativity and humour of the campaign, clearly not everyone is a fan.One critic calls it "a national disgrace"; another objects to the association with Uluru."Just wondering what Elders you consulted or granted you permission to use Uluru, a sacred site, with this slogan plastered over it."NT Official defended the campaign this week in a statement, saying the aim was to "bring attention to the unique Northern Territory as an ideal destination for the young or young at hearts".In that vein, a British company earlier this year published a map highlighting Australia's rudest place names.Strumpshaw, Tincleton &amp; Giggleswick's "Marvellous Map of Actual Australian Place Names" showed the NT to be no wallflower when it came to funny and rude spots.It's home to such oddly named locations as Bastard Bore, Big Knob Waterhole and Wallaby Knob. Actually, there are lots of knobs. And there's Shag Waterhole, Bottom Rocky Waterhole and Hooker Creek. Oh, and just off the coast, there's Willy Islet.Whether you like the campaign or not, all agree it's beautiful. Perhaps we'll CU there.