It was just after 7pm when I arrived at the dock in Tegel, Berlin, to board the river ship Elbe Princesse. The sun was setting on the Tegeler See, or Lake Tegel, causing a floodlight effect on two tulip meadows flanking the riverbank.Runners bobbed along the waterside path, swans chattered and ducks pottered on the foreshore, stabbing their beaks in the mud, seemingly intent on eking out the first vestiges of spring. A marvelous musical cruise on the DanubeThis rural mooring had taken me by surprise. Although the Spree meanders east-west through Berlin, and past many of its famous buildings, most who visit the capital on short breaks don't venture further than the bars and faux "beaches" along its riverbanks. And who can blame them?But Berlin is also known as the city of lakes. Its natural contours harbour two major rivers, the Spree and its tributary, the Havel, and several lakes form at their confluence.Our small group joined the ship on the banks of the Tegeler See, Berlin's second-largest lake where, earlier in the day Elbe Princesse had been christened under a whale-grey sky.Now, dappled light bounced off her long and slender exterior and cast puffy cloud reflections on her glass (she is almost 96m long). Her box-fresh interiors, set over three decks, gleamed."We've been waiting for you!" said the chirpy, French guest manager, Stephanie, as she led me to my cabin.The 24 crew had been in situ for weeks, preparing for this inaugural sailing. Princesse will cruise year-round from Berlin to Prague on the Elbe and Vltava; we would travel to Potsdam and back along the Havel for a three-night taster.This is the second paddlewheel vessel to be launched by the French cruise line CroisiEurope; the first set sail last year on the Loire. By reducing a vessel's draft, paddlewheel propulsion overcomes the navigational constraints posed by shallower rivers.Seeing the rear Volvo-engine-powered paddlewheels churning a satisfying spew of water was a constant source of fascination - no less so at night when the wheels powered their own "disco" lights in alternating blue, purple, pink and red.</img>The paddle wheels of the MS Elbe Princesse. Image: O. Asmussen/Croisitek/CroisEurope.TravelThe paddle wheels of the MS Elbe Princesse. Image: O. Asmussen/Croisitek/CroisEurope.TravelThe first evening got off to a relaxing start. Having lingered over smoked salmon and pork tenderloin in a pinot grigio reduction followed by rhubarb tart, most of the 40 or so passenger guinea pigs - including American, French, British, German and a Canadian - moved to the lounge for post-prandial drinks and music, chanson-style.Suddenly, egged on by the chanteuse, the French were on their feet, casting off their "neck jumpers" and performing an effusive, Gallic version of the Hokey Cokey.Then, to our collective (British) horror, began a conga. We cowered in our back corner, to no avail. The human locomotive picked off the tipsiest of our number - cue for the rest of us to shuffle off to bed.Although the lion's share of passengers who book with the line are French, British cruisers are firmly in CroisiEurope's viewfinder.I like sailing with northern Europeans. Our EU cousins are often multilingual (ergo, cleverer), they tend not to fuss, generally eat everything and entertain themselves well in deep and seemingly erudite conversation.I once cruised with Club Med and spent the entire time in awe of my fellow passengers' co-ordinative flair and wondering why there are far fewer overweight Belgians, French and Italians on cruise ships.Cruising the sacred waters of the Ganges With 43 vessels sailing on the world's rivers, and 40 years in the business of river cruising, CroisiEurope operates to a tried-and-tested, no-frills (no spa, gym or pool), value-for-money formula.Wine or beer with meals and an open bar are included; excursions are not. There is one restaurant and, controversially for some, no la carte menu.Just solidly good, well-portioned French cuisine served at a single 7.30pm sitting. I eat everything, so loved it. No decision making, overindulging or "I wish I'd ordered." moments.Fussier eaters may struggle, although the menu can be found on the in-cabin entertainment system and requests are taken into account.D cor was colourful; but not offensively so; cabins and public areas contemporary yet comfortable. I wanted for nothing on this new ship, apart from better coffee (the stuff served at breakfast was awful) and to take the four-ways-with-a-massage nozzle Hansgrohe shower home.Conga-gate seemed a distant memory at the next morning's buffet breakfast, where - through the picture windows - the lakes, forests, inlets, islands and waterside gardens that characterise Berlin's environs and the surrounding state of Brandenburg vied for our attention.Leaving Tegel behind, we were now cruising the Havel in a southerly direction towards Potsdam, via the district of Spandau and Wannsee - a popular bathing lake in the summer.</img>Visitors pass by Sanssouci Palace, the former summer palace of Frederick the Great, King of Prussia, in Potsdam. Image: iStockVisitors pass by Sanssouci Palace, the former summer palace of Frederick the Great, King of Prussia, in Potsdam. Image: iStockOur Italian guide Maria, resident in Berlin for 40 years, illuminated the river's curiosities - the medieval Spandau Citadel, Peacock Island with its eye-catching, half-timbered palace, Glienicke Bridge (better known as the Bridge of Spies) and the unfolding patchwork of hundreds of allotment-style garden plots replete with willow trees, swimming ladders and modest, chalet-style accommodation.These garden colonies, or schrebergarten, according to Maria, were encouraged as respite for working-class Berliners - a tradition that has endured since the late 19th century.During lunch, the style and size of waterside dwellings and their riverside gardens grew noticeably larger. Grunewaldsee, a forest bounded by the Havel, is home to several film stars and houses the court where tennis legend Steffi Graff practised her serve.But all of this was an amuse bouche for the summer residences of the Prussian Kings, Cecilienhof (the site of the Potsdam Conference) and Sanssouci Palace, our final stop. The palaces are part of a Unesco-listed cultural landscape known as "Prussian Arcadia." The flower-filled garden of Sanssouci was a treat.I'd seen Berlin for the first time, but from the outside in. Now I could hear a riverside bar calling. THE ELBE PRINCESSE AT A GLANCE Launched: April 14 2016.Style: Three-deck river ship carrying 79 passengers.Cabins: 40 arranged over two decks. Upper-deck cabins feature floor-to-ceiling windows; the lower-deck half windows (still an excellent view). All of the beds face the windows.Facilities: Sundeck; lounge and bar; restaurant and plenty of windows throughout.Wifi: Free across the ship.Sailing from: Berlin to Prague on the Elbe and Vltava rivers. A nine-day cruise from Berlin to Prague on the Elbe Princesse starts from 1,362 (R22,400) per person, including port taxes. See croisieurope.co.uk.- The Sunday Telegraph