"What's life without beer?" a frail Calder said. He was slouched in his lounge chair, where he spends up to 11 hours some days at his house in Swellendam, Western Cape.Calder was diagnosed with motor neuron disease in February 2014. He has lost movement in his legs and has limited movement of his arms. He wants an assisted death before he is unable to sit up and is confined to bed. He said he had arranged to have it done."It wasn't the thought of dying, or even of leaving my family [that made me decide on euthanasia], but it was the thought of becoming useless and lying in a bed with pipes coming out of me," said Calder."I know how I am going to do it and I know who is going to do it. I have spoken to the person and they are willing to do it. Even if the court ruling isn't overturned, I will still go ahead with it."MND is a neurological disorder that destroys cells controlling voluntary muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing and swallowing.Sufferers lose control of their bodies while remaining lucid. Average life expectancy is two to three years and there is no cure.Calder's family suppor this decision. One of his daughters put him in touch with Dignity South Africa, which advocates making euthanasia legal.His wife, Gertruida, said she would miss him but accepted his decision. Life or death debate may go to parliament"There's nothing that can be done," she said."All we can do is help as far as we can and make life as easy and comfortable as possible for him. It's his life, not mine, and I am not angry about his decision."Not everyone agreed with Calder's decision. He said he had friends and colleagues who did not want him to carry out his plan.Calder said: "People say to me 'Stay positive' and 'Keep well, you have years to go'. I tell them 'F*** you' because I know what terror lies ahead."Calder is a devout member of the Catholic church, which is opposed to suicide and euthanasia.Last week he wrote to Anglican Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu urging him to "continue to fight for us" in legalising euthanasia.Tutu, who has prostate cancer, has supported people's right to choose when they want to die. On his 85th birthday last month he said that he did not want to be kept alive "at all costs".Calder said he had lived a beautiful life and had no regrets."I still have a little bit of quality of life, but once I lose that I want to do it."