This follows yet another controversy over the dress that will represent South Africa this year.The flowing yellow and orange sunrise chiffon gown, to be worn by Miss South Africa Ntandoyenkosi Kunene at the Miss World show on December 18, sparked debate about both its style and its relevance to the country.But while the dress has stirred discussion, it has not been as controversial as some of the dresses Miss South Africas have had to wear to the global event in previous years.The dress worn in 2014 by Rolene Strauss - who went on to win Miss World - sparked a frenzy of negative comment from South Africans. She wore a "Sophiatown and big five" inspired ensemble created by the Cape Town College of Fashion Design.Also under fire was 2015 winner Liesl Laurie's "African Goddess dress" made from copper, gold and leather, which designer Casper Bosman said represented the country's mineral resources.Miss South Africa 2004, Claudia Henkel, a publicist for Sun International, said: "We have designers who sponsor Miss South Africa during her year of reign, [and] we try to encourage looking inward for talent to design. However, we do approach external designers to pitch for the brief and submit designs. Perhaps running a competition would be a future consideration."She said the brief to designers was to represent the nation, but also to incorporate elements of the background of a particular Miss South Africa, as well as where she is from."The garments should be able to compete on an international level and translate well for stage purposes and be relevant to the events held."</img>Miss SA of 2015 Liesl Laurie in her African Goddess dress by designer Casper Bosman. Image: Supplied Miss SA of 2015 Liesl Laurie in her African Goddess dress by designer Casper Bosman. Image: SuppliedDesigner JJ Schoeman said Kunene's dress was inspired by the province she comes from, Mpumalanga. "It means the place of the rising sun. I had to keep the following in mind: the staging, lighting, flow of the fabric, the bling, a wow factor and the dancing. This all in the endeavour to make an impact in the very little time allocated to each contestant."South African designers were critical of the dress.Fundudzi designer Craig Jacobs said Kunene's dress "on face value, reads more Middle Eastern or even Indian than something inspired by Africa".He couldn't understand why "fellow designers struggle to create a dress which reflects our country's diversity"."We are spoilt for choice when it comes to cultural inspiration, flora and fauna so you can end up trying to please everyone with schizophrenic results," said Jacobs.</img>Miss SA 2013 Marilyn Ramos wore this gown by Laura Stewart in the Miss World pageant. Image: Johnny Onverwacht Miss SA 2013 Marilyn Ramos wore this gown by Laura Stewart in the Miss World pageant. Image: Johnny OnverwachtRjKay designer Paledi Segapo, who has designed previous Miss South Africa dresses, felt Kunene's dress "looked more like a cocktail dress"."I'm not sure if this is the national costume or talent competition number."Award-winning designer David Tlale said the dress would not make Kunene stand out."I liked Tatum Keshwar's dress from 2008, it embodied so much from the country, the different fabrics and textures and crafts, plus the Zulu hat, showed off many things that this country is about."This platform should profile where the fashion industry is in South Africa and a little bit about the world. It should show where we are as designers in the country as well - not look like we are going to a circus but make a statement."</img>Miss SA 2014 Rolene Strauss in her national costume designed by students from the Cape Town College of Fashion Design. It sparked a frenzy of criticism but she went on to win the Miss World crown. Image: DEBBIE YAZBEK Miss SA 2014 Rolene Strauss in her national costume designed by students from the Cape Town College of Fashion Design. It sparked a frenzy of criticism but she went on to win the Miss World crown. Image: DEBBIE YAZBEKDesigner Gavin Rajah said beauty pageants needed to be "reinvented" to make the contestants more believable.When designers "put them in a garment that makes them look like they are part of the set of Avatar, you get a whole other perception of what South Africa is and what the design capabilities are".The more negative the public perception, "the more the Miss South Africa becomes diminished in brand value and more".