What do you do?I have a company that does corporate and personal training. The training is based on neuro-linguistic programming and added skills training.We currently focus on voice and communications to all corporates and cover various training modules such as call-centre training and presenter-skills training.What does your typical work day involve?That is usually a very well-defined process already. My day always starts with some kind of meditation or gratitude followed by exercise. From banking to PR and then into radioBroken down into priorities:1) What needs to get done now?2) What needs to get done this week?3) Sales calls.4) Follow up.5) Planning tomorrow.How did you end up getting the job of Steve's voice on the FNB radio ads?I had put my voice on online casting facility Voicebank, and FNB was the third voice-over I had ever done. Thankfully, I have always used my voice as a singer and performer, so I had experience in voice.I insisted on working on my own without agents, and FNB's producer at the time called me and said that they liked my voice for the ad. I walked in to a room full of people and asked: "Who's all auditioning for the voice?" and it was only me. They liked me, and I was Steve from the get-go.Did being part of such a big adcampaign change your life?At first, not really, because no one was supposed to know that I was the voice of "Steve" - until now. Now I'd like to share that story and tell people where I come from. I was paid a salary for a time but nothing about my life was affected because of the campaign.What training do you have to be a voice artist?I don't have specific training. I have been a singer since I was four years old and have always been on stage or behind a microphone. I have been part of two bands - an Afrikaans group called Offshore, and an English corporate band, Soul Classics.I have also been teaching voice for a long time as I have been involved in church choirs. I was an MC at a number of casinos. All in all, my experience was self-application and learning by default.Tell me about your career setbacks and how you've overcome them.At the age of 30 I got divorced and didn't want to deal with taking responsibility for it all, so I left for Thailand for three months. When I came home, I couldn't find work.Having studied neuro-linguistic programming, I knew I had to apply the knowledge that I had and spent a lot of time reading anything that could help me change my life. I eventually found work as an MC and later started Soul Classics to perform at hotels and bars in Joburg.I knew that I had to apply myself and do what I was good at, which was using my voice on as many platforms as I could.Eventually, someone mentioned voice-over work, and I registered.It's been a huge struggle to find my feet, but eventually I did. I've also worked in a lot of sales and marketing positions.You are a telemarketer. How do you keep the person on the phone for longer than five minutes?Every conversation is going to be different, so effective communication is key. Useful telemarketer techniques include: Smile; Always ask if someone has time to speak to you; Always make sure you are speaking to the right person; and Ensure you know your product inside out. Keeping an eye on the world, and your place in itWhat did you want to be when you were a child?Michael Jackson or a doctor. Singing has always been my passion. I wanted to be a doctor because I wanted to help people. Today, I get to do something very similar to both those things. I get to teach you about "your voice", and I get to help people.What was your first paying job, and what did you learn from it?My first job was working with my dad delivering magazines to stores. It was labour-intensive. My dad always told me to work hard [but] I instinctively knew I didn't want to work like that.I didn't want to become a slave to my work. I never accepted that I should work so hard and get so little money. It never made sense and still doesn't today.Working hard is essential, but working smart is better.Are there plans for "Steve from Beep Bank" to make a comeback?I really hope there are plans for him. I don't think Steve will ever go back to working at "Beep Bank", but maybe in a different capacity.I am hoping that he lives on somehow with a different brand or even a different platform. I think "the voice of Steve" is definitely something people remember, and I would love to live on as that.