Addressing the media ahead of his team's showdown with Watford at Anfield today, the German coach challenged his team to make the most of the extra rest and couldn't resist a little dig at Liverpool's rivals."For the last six, seven years I was always travelling through Europe. I never thought 'this is too much'. If you want to be successful, you need European football."We have to show we use the time for training over the whole season, not the first 10 games."Did you ask the same of Antonio Conte? They have the same situation. Maybe Manchester United have the same from January onwards."Klopp was speaking the day after United's defeat to Fenerbahce in the Europa League, which leaves Jos Mourinho's side with an uphill battle to qualify for the knockout stage.Klopp revealed that Emre Can and Georginio Wijnaldum had been sent home from training after picking up a bug, but he will have James Milner back in the squad for the visit of seventh-placed Watford, who are unbeaten in four league matches. Hazard can be the world's best: Conte"Watford have changed manager, system and players," he added, praising Walter Mazzarri's impact since taking over.United at bogey SwansJOSE Mourinho will hope his Manchester United side, already eight points adrift of top spot, can provide him with some respite at second-bottom Swansea today after a mediocre display in a 2-1 Europa League loss away to Fenerbahce.Mourinho, set to serve a touchline ban at the Liberty Stadium, accused his team of treating the match like a "summer friendly".After an impressive start, United have struggled. Mourinho's men have failed to win four of their last six matches in all competitions.United crashed to a 2-1 defeat against Fenerbahce on Thursday and the Portuguese coach is under pressure to deliver. Furthermore, they will be without a few key players.Midfield kingpin Paul Pogba limped off with a dead leg against Fenerbahce and is expected to sit this one out. Defenders Chris Smalling and Eric Bailly and midfield player Antonio Valencia are all injured.Swansea have had a disastrous start to the season and have failed to win nine of their 10 league matches so far. The Welsh outfit have failed to turn it around under their new manager Bob Bradley as well.A win against United could give them the platform and the boost they need to turn their season around. They have a good head-to-head record against United and have beaten them four times in their last six meetings.Kyle Naughton, Jefferson Montero and Nathan Dyer are injury worries for the home side.Champions Leicester City are at home to West Bromwich Albion today.