On the doorway above his foot sits a pigeon. There are other men and birds: to the left, a pigeon on a man's head; a pigeon flying to his foot. In the blank space between the men are the words SAME WALL DIFFERENT SPAC. The E is on its own line, flipped. Next to that, a cockroach.They put cockroaches everywhere: on white pillars, in backgrounds, on foreheads. Always upright, feelers to the sky. Life-size and large: true Cape Town roaches. Sometimes the roach is accompanied by words THE TIME IS !XNAU. The Time is Now. The time of the Khoisan is now. The cockroach never dies. The cockroach has been waiting.The mayor v.s. the murals: Could Joburg's street art be wiped out?Rich people are encroaching; the Xcollektiv artists' collective is reclaiming. Any street art they consider part of gentrification is stamped with the roach.In 2011 a project called "I Art Cape Town" commissioned murals in Woodstock, a predominantly Muslim and coloured community, and one of the few racially mixed areas to survive Cape Town's "whitening" during apartheid.Most of the invited artists were international. You'll see work by Know Hope from Israel, Elicser from Canada, MADC from Germany, Usclef from France, Masai from the UK, the list goes on.Among the paintings is a smattering of work by local artists.Sometimes a cockroach is misplaced. There, between the eyebrows of a man of colour. This piece was done by a local artist, Conform. Looking at it, we wonder if Xcollectiv does its background checks.Local artists boycotted the area for a while but after 2014 some returned to this space. "We're still part of this city. We should paint again," they said.There's DALeast with his animals that threaten to unlace. An eagle unravelling in the sky. Dogs shaking off their hair in bits of twine. There's Faith47, and her son, Jack Fox, with his patterned figures in black and white. There's Grant Jurius.Grant does street art walking tours and is showing us around. It is still sometimes frowned upon for him to walk here with outsiders. "This community is outraged," he says of the gentrification.Grant started doing tours at the end of 2013. "For the first year people were giving me shit all the time, even while I was walking with my tourists," he says. "'Who are you to bring these people here? You're not even from here,' they said." Grant is proud of his mixed heritage - black, European, Malay and San."But obviously my intentions are different," he says. "In fact my intentions are to talk about the things they are angry about." Laughter breaks through his voice. "The Xcollectiv has been coming to the party," he said.Two plants stretch the height of a two-storey building on long, thin stalks; their heads stop just below the skyline. Yellow drips from the leaves as if it has been ladled there, and runs almost to the ground.12 facts that ll change the way you look at SA graffiti A fissure runs parallel like a third stalk, and its cracks spread at the bottom like roots. Underneath are the words LIVING APART/ ENTWINED but the APART/ has been blacked out by a local gang, leaving only one option: LIVING ENTWINED. The same group put their mark - XGB - in large, rough letters over the roots of the piece. The community is rooted here they seem to say. XGB is rooted here. We are rooted here.The streets are narrow and often we need to move to the side so that cars can pass. They brush by us.To be a graffiti artist is to embrace cycles. In Woodstock, the first law of street art is being broken: rate of movement should never be zero. "What makes those pieces elite is that nobody touches them," Grant says of the international murals. "Local artists should come in. Repaint. Keep it moving. Keep it circulating."Grant thinks street art aided gentrification, and with street art they must take back the area. I wonder what would happen if the artists defaced everything, overnight. If they kept erasing the beauty of the place perhaps they would be able to keep it.For now, in Woodstock, the conversation has stopped. One month passes and all that is new is a piece by Bob D. There is a rate of change at which street art becomes something else. Decoration. The outside of a house. Here, the rate is slowing to a standstill; the aesthetics are solidifying, just as gentrification will soon be no longer a process, but a state.