During that time, Madonsela says Gupta called Molefe 14 times, and he returned the favour 44 times. There were also 19 occasions when Molefe made house calls or was at least in close proximity to the Saxonwold estate which is home to the Guptas.One of the two relationships mentioned above is pretty unhealthy and seemingly quite needy. Just to be sure, I checked with my wife, via encrypted WhatsApp - she assured me we were doing fine.The State of Capture report is likely to have a wider following in South Africa than even the EL James fantasy Fifty Shades of Grey. Why so many will be rooting for GordhanOne of the texts, I am informed, is about the dominance of one over another. It's about getting, I believe the term is "a submissive", to do their bidding, in return for being kept in a style to which they can become accustomed.The other is about sadomasochism. One is about paddling bottoms, and the other about bottom-feeding peddlers. The parallels are just astounding.Molefe has been an outspoken defender of the Guptas, asserting in recent months there was a media hunt for the family who'd never been proved guilty in court; as a South African citizen and parastatal CEO, he was perfectly at liberty to enter into business dealings with them.The report is not kind to Molefe. Eskom is accused of bankrupting Optimum Coal, and Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane is criticised for his intervention on behalf of the Guptas with Glencore to sell them the mine, which then scored lucrative Eskom contracts.Let's not forget that infamous memo Zwane claimed was on behalf of cabinet calling for an inquiry into the banks over the saga.Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan's masterstroke in this matter was his court application last month detailing some R6-billion in questionable money flows to justify his not intervening with banks on behalf of the Guptas.If there is one flaw in the public protector's report, it is her optimism that a commission of inquiry will be set up before Christmas and complete its work by Easter.If the Farlam commission on the Marikana massacre taught us anything, it was the ability of the state to prolong the agony of a pivotal process until it believes the risk it poses to its sovereignty is past. President Jacob Zuma himself has not been shy about using every legal avenue at taxpayers' expense to wriggle out of tight spots.It's game on as the battle lines between the still-powerful Zuma and emboldened business, civil society groupings and union support are clearly drawn. Expect a dirty fight. We have no choice but to address student grievancesAssuming Zuma were to be replaced as president of the ANC and the country before the party's elective conference in December 2017, what message would it send? The ANC is paranoid that it will be seen as a serial presidential recaller when times are tough, rather than a decisive leadership group intent on preserving a proud liberation legacy.Sometimes you do have to be careful what you wish for. There is no clear frontrunner yet to lead the party, and the candidate most favoured by business and some unions, Cyril Ramaphosa, is by no means guaranteed a shot at the top job.If you are expecting a speedy resolution to South Africa's political logjam as a result of the State of Capture report, you may be sorely disappointed.Remember, it took Americans, who this week head to the polls to choose either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump as president, three years to get rid of Richard Nixon after Watergate in 1974. Sitting presidents have extraordinary resources at their disposal to fight personal battles.This report may not even be Zuma's Watergate moment.Whitfield is a public speaker on the political economy and an award-winning financial journalist