She and her husband James are reminded almost daily about the morning of January 20 2014, when Michael Komape drowned after the corrugated-iron toilet at Mahlodumela Lower Primary School in Limpopo collapsed."We had made him for a purpose, and if he was still alive right now we wouldn't be going through all of this," said Rosina.The Komapes spoke about the incident for the first time this week since suing the education department for R3.1-million a year ago. Dead priest helps bring KwaZulu-Natal school back to lifeSpeaking through legal representatives and nongovernmental organisation Section27, the couple said it was impossible to forget what happened."They keep talking, the neighbours, and this is why this pain will never go away," said Rosina.Because their case has not yet been heard, their pain is compounded. "I never thought it would take this many years and it's killing my family," said James. "I can see that it has changed me, and it has changed my family too."Section27 attorney Kate Paterson said delays in bringing the case to court appeared to have been resolved and the hearing should be held in the first half of next year.Worryingly, the shoddy infrastructure that resulted in Michael's death is not uncommon. The Department of Basic Education says 4,986 schools have only pit latrines and 68 have no sanitation facilities.At Lugxogxo Junior Secondary in Mthatha, close to 300 pupils share a single working toilet. The principal is terrified a pupil could fall in, according to a recent report by Equal Education. "One 'toilet' at this school is literally a hole in the ground," says the report, released to the Sunday Times."The ratio of toilets to pupils is 1:49. The ratio of working toilets to pupils is 1:294." School facilities dire despite deadline Tuesday marks the expiry of the government's self-imposed deadline to implement minimum standards for school infrastructure. Non-compliant schools will be operating illegally, said Equal Education general secretary Tshepo Motsepe.He said the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo had the worst infrastructure backlogs, but all provinces had problems."After the November 29 deadline, it will be illegal for schools not to have the basic infrastructure described in the norms and standards. We will then be able to take up individual cases of schools, and potentially go to court on their behalf, to demand that they are fixed," said Motsepe.Deficiencies are laid bare in statistics from the Department of Basic Education. Of 23,577 schools nationwide: 171 have no water supply and more than 5,000 have an "unreliable" supply; 569 have no electricity; 68 have no sanitation facilities; and 4,986 only have pit latrines, while another 4,217 schools have broader facilities that include pit latrines.</img>James Komape, father of six-year-old Michael Komape, Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI James Komape, father of six-year-old Michael Komape, Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI A report by Equal Education paints a gloomy picture of "routinely filthy" conditions at 60 Eastern Cape schools. "Absolute shortages and broken toilets frequently led to entire schools depending on two or three pit latrines. We are gravely concerned by the filthiness of school toilets," says the report."It is deeply disturbing to see pupils relieve themselves in open fields rather than use unsanitary pit toilets, and to see that toilets are without doors or entirely unenclosed."It is an outrage that the dignity of pupils - particularly girl learners - is compromised."Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga acknowledged the department was "plagued with challenges" over infrastructure, but said progress had been made.In October 2014, there were 474 schools with no sanitation facilities, but within two years more than 400 of these had been provided with toilets."This was extremely important because I am unsure how anyone could expect a child to be in school all day and not be able to get to the toilet," said Motshekga.Similar improvements had been made to "mud schools", and those with no water or electricity."While we are not moving as fast as we would like ... the political will is indeed there," said Motshekga.mthethwab@sundaytimes.co.za, savidesm@sundaytimes.co.za