The answer is not straightforward because SA rugby is a complex world and being national coach entails far more than picking 23 players at the weekend.Meeting transformation targets, operating with a dearth of world-class players, dealing with a migration of players to foreign leagues and a weak domestic structure are just some of the complexities facing the Springbok coach.The Springboks have never employed a foreign coach, though they have used several foreigners such as Tim Lane and Eddie Jones in assistant coach positions.Under-fire Coetzee rings the changes ahead of his last Springbok squad of 2016Whether SA Rugby would be bold enough to look abroad this time depends on how desperate they are. But advertising the post instead of using the non-transparent Rugby Committee to headhunt a candidate might unearth interested parties they might not even be aware of.Possible Bok coaches:Jake White - South Africa, 53: The 2007 World Cup-winning coach is vastly experienced and understands the demands of the Bok job. His stint as coach between 2004 and 2007 was fraught with run-ins with his bosses at SA Rugby, particularly former president Oregan Hoskins.Ultimately though, White delivered on his mandate of winning the Webb Ellis trophy despite shamefully being asked to reapply for his job during the 2007 event.He has since taken the Brumbies from 13th in Super Rugby to the runners-up in two seasons. He took the Sharks to the Super Rugby semifinals and he also guided French club Montpellier out of the relegation zone and into a top-four finish in the French Top 14 League. Montpellier also won their first European title with last season's Challenge Cup. White and the club will part at the end of the season, meaning SA Rugby wouldn't have to pay a huge fee to release him early.Rassie Erasmus - South African, 44: Erasmus is director of rugby at Irish province Munster having previously held the position of general manager of high performance at SA Rugby. He coached the Cheetahs to Currie Cup glory in 2005 and is widely regarded as a leading rugby brain in SA. He was the frontrunner to become Bok coach this year before the Rugby Committee removed his name from a short list, which prompted his move to Ireland.Erasmus hasn't coached full-time at a high level in six years, but he has never stopped following trends and innovating from the background. He is well liked at SA Rugby, but buying him out of a Munster contract might be prohibitive.Dave Rennie - New Zealand, 52: He is friendly with several of SA's Super Rugby coaches and understands South Africa's complexities. A no-nonsense man with a great CV that includes two Super Rugby titles as Chiefs head coach and three under-20 world championships.He has been talked about as a future All Black coach, but that job won't be available for three years at least, so he might fancy a tilt at the Bok job in the interim. Has just signed a contract with the Glasgow Warriors and would have to be extracted.