The Boss Zonke hit-maker says his fast-growing hair and beard needs regular maintenance. I think it s important to always keep yourself groomed whatever your particular style. The most important thing is just trying to take care of the beard. Keep it combed and use the right oils. Makhado is currently using coconut oil to keep his beard lush.TV presenter Maps Maponyane says he likes to keep his grooming routine simple but will not compromise on his sunscreen. After the shower I wash my face with a simple soap. It will be a moisturising soap with no fragrance. After moisturising I always put on SPF. People like to believe black don't crack but to delay [the signs of ageing] I keep my skin healthy. I always try to make sure I smell good. I've got a number of various fragrances."Maponyane whose skin is sensitive to the sun goes for light therapy to treat his heat rashes.Maponyane says he has started turning to male salons which are filling a gap in the male grooming market to keep his fingernails neat. Men want to groom in a space that they feel is more easy-going and comfortable for men. Makhado says though male grooming appears to be on trend it is in fact an old tradition. It's an old tradition. Especially with beards people from the east have been doing it for a long time. In black culture hair has always been important. The barbershop has always been a place where people gather to talk. Makhado's kept his lips zipped on what guys chat about when they're in the barber's chair however. Most things we talk about in the barbershop stays in the barbershop. It's our locker room talk. Maponyane gets his hair cut by a Tanzanian barber for R50 every 10 days on average. Haircuts are super-important now. It is important for any man to make sure his hair is in the best condition it can be in. Considering growing a beard? For loads of facial hair inspiration, check out the Instagram accounts of Makhado Maponyane and other well-groomed gents:Rapper Rikhado 'Riky Tick' Makhado:A photo posted by Rikhado "Riky Rick" Makhado (@rikyrickworld) on Oct 24, 2016 at 2:36am PDT Actor Maps Maponyane:A photo posted by Maps Maponyane (@mmaponyane) on Oct 27, 2016 at 2:43am PDT Businessman and philanthropist Matthew Mensah:A photo posted by mistermensah1 (@matthewmensah) on Oct 27, 2016 at 5:15am PDT Capetonian blogger Sergio Ines, voted one of the 10-best dressed men on Instagram by British GQ:A photo posted by @whatmyboyfriendwore on Oct 11, 2016 at 5:06am PDT Celeb dentist, model and musician Alexander Rawh ni, also known as Dr Smile or by his stage name Lexleo:A photo posted by Lex on Oct 29, 2016 at 6:10am PDT TV presenter Janez Vermeiren:A photo posted by Janez Vermeiren (@janez_vermeiren) on Oct 31, 2016 at 3:10am PDT Johannesburg-based fashion designer Daniel-Hugo Crouse:A photo posted by Daniel-Hugo Crouse (@danielhugocrouse) on Jun 8, 2016 at 12:49am PDT The brains behind the Stuurman Style Diary, creative director and photographer Trevor Stuurman:A photo posted by Trevor (@trevor_stuurman) on Oct 24, 2016 at 11:49am PDT Angolan-born fashion designer and entrepreneur Antonio Ambrosio:A photo posted by ANTONIO AMBROSIO (@antonioambrosio.aa) on Oct 27, 2016 at 7:37am PDT - TMG Digital