Since taking over celebrity and fashion-forward faces everywhere, fleeked or faded brows and their polar opposite, the equally offensive uncraftily scrawled forehead line, were dragging us towards an eyebrow apocalypse. Let the great ungrooming begin.Unkempt, unruly eyebrows are the aim, says Unaiza Moideen, owner of The Brow Bar, a chain of salons dedicated to the care and maintenance of eyebrows. 5 tips for ontrend eyebrowsEyebrows like those of Puerto Rican model Natalia Castellar are probably unattainable for most of us, but after years of being teased about them as a young girl, she is now exploiting them on the catwalk. "I love my eyebrows. They set me aside from other models. They're my trademark, and I wish I would have embraced them sooner," Castellar says.While thinning brows could be a sign of deficiencies in nutrients like biotin and iron, they are usually caused by tweezer addiction. "People have abused their brows, over-tweezing, shaving them off completely and drawing them in badly," says Moideen."Untrained beauticians are also guilty of removing too much hair, which does not grow back easily. So, we have clients in brow rehab. The trend is unruly, untouched brows, which have to be regrown."The "rehab" involves massaging an imported growth serum into the brows every night for at least four months, says Moideen, whose Brow Bars are frequented by local celebs like Minnie Dlamini and pageant winners."Makeup is an option, but we can improve the aesthetic by non-permanent tinting. There are also brow extensions, similar to eyelash extensions, which can be glued on. Micro-blading is a semi-permanent form of tattooing to recreate or enhance the brow. But it is not regulated, and must be done by an expert or it can be a disaster," she says.Brow implants and tattooing give hope to those who have lost their brows, sometimes because of a hair-loss disease like alopecia or as a result of chemotherapy. There is an Asian face-reading science, which says your brows can indicate anything from the state of your relationship to your health Moideen says brows evolved their shape to direct perspiration away from the eye, which is why the natural arch is important. But eyebrows are also part of the way we communicate. "They react before our lips and eyes do. If they are too high, you appear sarcastic or surprised. Too low and you could appear angry."There is also an Asian face-reading science, which says your brows can indicate anything from the state of your relationship to your health." Called mian xiang, it says "a fan to the left indicates unhappiness in relationships or family circles". Thin eyebrows may mean a battle in the employment sphere; rough and dull equals diminished sexual energy; out of proportion to the eyes could be a sign of inner imbalance.10 prettiest beauty looks from the Hollywood Film AwardsJohannesburg permanent makeup specialist Manuela Incendiario says the latest technological advances in eyebrow repair involve "a combination of machine and a well-designed, hand-held blade".There are "hybrid miracle brows" created with pigment tattooing, nano-needle hair-stroke brows and "unbelievable" micro-blade 3D strokes, she says."Unlike previously tattooing your eyebrows with solid colors, nano-needling uses extremely fine and delicate hair strokes that follow the direction of the existing hair strand growth," says Incendiario. "It creates a more natural look with texture. New pigments mean you can match your original eyebrow colour."Designing the ultimate eyebrow is not random guesswork; both Moideen and Incendiario use the golden ratio - a formula that has been cited by arty types like Leonardo da Vinci ever since the Ancient Greeks first noticed it - to get everything in proportion."Every face shape is different and I usually design to complement my client's features using the ratio," says Incendiario. "However, my natural instinct is usually towards a face-framing arched eyebrow." Moideen marks in thread where the brow should be, often finding lagging on the side on which a person usually sleeps.She says those who have naturally unplucked eyebrows should keep them that way. "Shading and redrawing is not recommended, ever. I think it is a good thing that people are using some sort of brow product, paying a bit more attention to their brows. The eyebrows must frame the face. We want thicker and fuller, healthy brows. It is less about fashion than design, symmetry and style."