So he is considering plan B - taking a gap year to play cricket.Mulder, who plays for the Highveld Lions, is one of those matrics who are considering deferring their studies due to the instability at campuses across the country."I want to study. I would like to go to the University of Johannesburg [but] I'm not sure what to do, given all the problems," said the 18-year-old St Stithians College pupil. Varsities fight to remain solvent"I am considering taking a gap year and giving everything to cricket because I have a good opportunity."In the Western Cape town of Hermanus, matric pupil Aphelele Ngxukume is worried her dream to attend university may never be realised.The Qhayiya Secondary School pupil applied to the Cape Peninsula University of Technology but has not heard back. She suspects that #FeesMustFall protests have interfered with the processing of applications for next year. Lectures at the institution were cancelled last month and final exams hang in the balance.Ngxukume lives in an informal settlement with her two siblings and relies on social grants to survive."I will be forced to take a gap year and work at the supermarket. I have been given a bursary by my high school but if I am not processed into the system I might lose the bursary and be forced to save money to reapply in 2018," she said."It's disappointing that I may not make it to university. I would be the first one in my family to go to university and my sister was hoping I would be the one to change our living situation."But it is not only matrics who are affected.Aidan Mulder, 19, who is doing a one-year introductory BSc biological science course at the University of Pretoria, said he felt very uncertain about the future. If the protests continued, he would consider going to a private institution next year where there was less violence and fewer protests.</img>Wiaan Mulder, who plays for the Highveld Lions, is considering a gap year after matriculating this year. Image: Gallo Images Sydney SeshibediWiaan Mulder, who plays for the Highveld Lions, is considering a gap year after matriculating this year. Image: Gallo Images Sydney Seshibedi"I'm very understanding of the FeesMustFall protests, but it is very inconvenient," he said. "Exams have been moved and rearranged, we missed important semester tests."At my age, a year is quite important for me, career-wise. I can't afford to waste it."Mollin Mbele of Durban, whose son Asande Mbele took a gap year this year after matriculating last year, said while she supported the #FeesMustFall movement, she was concerned for her child's safety in light of protests on campus, and had therefore decided to enrol him in a private college for next year."We thought Varsity College would be an alternative because there are no strikes and everything is private. He was planning on studying engineering, but Varsity College does not offer the course."He could have gone to the University of KwaZulu-Natal or the University of Johannesburg, but what's happening at universities is driving us mad."Asande, 18, echoed his mom's sentiments, saying although he supported a freeze on fees, tertiary education should not be free.University of the Witwatersrand spokeswoman Shirona Patel said students considering education at private institutions and overseas were a concern. "If the public higher education system is destroyed, it could potentially lead to the mushrooming of private higher education institutions, which would be expensive and out of the reach of ordinary South Africans."