In a written response to TMG Digital the Gauteng Department of Education said that it was not aware of glitches with the online school application process and the deadline for the 2017 academic year remained November 2016.The department was confident the application programme would be a success. The department will place all learners. Parents will be given reasonable alternative offers of placement said department spokesperson Oupa Bodibe.He said a total of 102 768 Grade 1 learners have been placed and 71 851 Grade 8 pupils have also secured places. Late applications were being processed daily.Curro talks up state gains as it lays plans for private universitiesBut parents are not happy with the online application process.Mary Mkhize* of Tembisa applied for a space in Norkem Primary School in Kempton Park and it was declined. When I asked why my daughter is unable to get a space they said they taking kids from the feeder areas and not from Tembisa. They instead transferred the application to Siphiwe Primary school [in Tembisa]. I asked them why; they said it is because she lives in a township. I asked if this is a racist move. Why is my child being discriminated against just because she comes from a township? I did not get a chance to have good education. I must make sure that my child gets a good education said Mkhize.While Mkhize was finally able to secure a space for her daughter she was not happy as she felt the online application could discriminate against parents who do not have access to internet. I have issues with this online application system. Not every parent has access to the internet. There are children who live with their grandparents and they do not have internet. What should happen to them? she asked.But the department advised parents to go to the district offices where they will get support on the application process. This included holding open days two of which at Boitumelong Secondary in Tembisa and Mpontsheng Secondary in Katlehong for schools in Ekurhuleni north and south take place on Saturday.However over the weekend angry parents expressed disgust at the manner in which the open days operated. They told SABC News of long queues and complained that they could not get answers from the staff meant to be helping them.The online school system was introduced this year by education MEC Panyaza Lesufi to bring more efficiency to the application process.*Not her real name. TMG Digital