This unusual debut is inspiring little confidence among anxious depositors.But with hard cash fast running out and scepticism from the public over the bond notes, Harare's rulers seem to have lost patience. They have turned to browbeating in the hope of putting an end to a liquidity crunch that threatens to bring President Robert Mugabe's administration to its knees.The issuance of the bond notes as legal tender was critical to the recovery of the economy and their legality should be put "beyond any measure of doubt", said the finance minister, Patrick Chinamasa. Presidents find solace together"If one owes you money in US dollars, you must accept payment in bond notes. You cannot refuse. One would have discharged his or her obligation to you," he said.Chinamasa's comments are an indication of how the Zimbabwean government intends to finance its domestic debt of over $1-billion (about R13.5-billion) to the private sector in bond notes. The bond notes are set to trade at a rate of 1:1 to the US dollar.On Tuesday Mugabe stepped in to use the Presidential Powers (Temporary Measures) Amendment of Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act and "Issue of Bond Notes" regulations to recognise the bond notes as legal tender.The move has been strongly criticised by legal observers as not only unconstitutional, but also as having bypassed parliament in the crafting of the bond notes legislation.Deep divisions in Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF, which holds a two-thirds majority in parliament, is thought to be behind the president's decision to forgo the process of having the bond notes regulation debated in the legislative body, where the legislation risked being rejected by his party.Last month, the speaker of parliament, Jacob Mudenda, a senior politician in Zanu-PF, rebuked monetary authorities for "bungling". He pointed out that the bond notes had no supportive legal framework to back their circulation.Jacob Mafume, a lawyer and senior official in the opposition People's Democratic Party, said a repeat of the shortages and hyperinflation rampant in 2008 loomed."The bond note is the Zimbabwean dollar that has simply returned with its full wrath. Once again the black market will thrive, multiple exchange rates will be introduced in the streets as people trade in the US dollar ... Mugabe and his minions have set in motion a financial armageddon which will destroy whatever has been left of people's livelihoods and the economy," Mafume said.Independent economist John Robertson said this week that authorities were at their wits' end about how to deal with the cash crisis."The politicians are very frightened by the response from the market. They hope their threats will suppress market forces, but that won't happen. There are thousands of people who simply don't have any confidence in the bond notes."The bully-boy tactics took a nasty turn this week as the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe threatened action against businesses and companies involved in selling the scarce US dollar. It accused corporations of selling cash at a premium of 20% interest to the public."The underhand cash transactions also promote and encourage money laundering, tax evasion and smuggling cash out of the country. The Reserve Bank warns businesses and individuals engaging in these illicit practices to desist forthwith," the central bank said.Depositors are not taking any chances with their funds. Long queues at banks are a daily sight as a last-minute rush to grab the limited dollars persists.The market has been extremely suspicious of the bond notes, wary that their introduction marks a return of the defunct Zimbabwe dollar. Cash king as Zim bond note delay sows panicIt was ditched seven years ago when the country adopted a multi-currency system that uses the US dollar, South African rand, British pound and Botswana's pula.Prior to that the Zimbabwe dollar was ravaged by hyperinflation, rapidly losing its value and resulted in many pensioners losing their life savings.The US dollar over time has emerged as the currency of choice - used in 95% of all transactions by Zimbabweans.Harare's rulers have been unable to unlock fresh capital from Beijing, London, Paris or Pretoria. And the government in the past four months has struggled to keep up with salary payments for its 550,000 public workers. Out of every dollar earned by the government, it uses 97c to pay salaries.Meanwhile, Stanbic Bank Zimbabwe, a local unit of South Africa's Standard Bank, on Thursday made an about-turn on its attempt to make additions to its general terms and conditions of banking services.Among other things, the addendum said the bank reserved the right to pay funds in one or more other currency or currency units recognised at that time as legal tender - a pointer that it would issue the contentious bond notes to clients, even though they held US dollar accounts with it.In its climb-down, Stanbic Bank Zimbabwe said its intentions - to ensure its systems were up to date - had been misunderstood and it would stick to the existing terms of its banking services.