"People are confused about eating," says Wayne Kaminsky. Most of us try to be healthy, but because we are "time poor" we end up grabbing high-carbohydrate, high-sugar foods because we don't have good food to hand."That's why diets [to lose weight] fail," he says .Kaminsky is talking from experience. He's a sports fanatic who discovered that although he was burning loads of calories in training, he remained overweight.6 summer health food trendsHe considered entering MasterChef South Africa a couple of years ago and practised for the competition by preparing a variety of meals."I made good, healthy stuff and my fridge and freezer were filled with meals that only required defrosting and warming up when I was hungry," he says.Within three weeks of eating his homemade fare he had lost weight. He has no formal chef training and believes that is the key to the success of his business."I started looking at products in the supermarkets and, more importantly, the list of ingredients. Most ready-made meals are filled with additives, preservatives, added sugars and highly refined carbohydrates. It's not surprising that we have become confused about eating."My idea was to start a business that made meals using top-quality ingredients that one can pronounce, and sell them online and offer a delivery or collections service," says Kaminsky.Demand for Fit Chef meals - which come in portions for one (family portions are to be available soon) - is high."We had our busiest weekend recently when we produced 53,000 meals," says Kaminsky.A meal for one costs between R40 and R50. Popular items include boerewors bredie, bobotie, beef goulash, wholewheat pasta penne, con carne with quinoa and the new range of "bunless" burgers. All meals come with two side dishes. Which are healthy fats & oils? Experts give their verdictsThe best-selling package by far, says Kaminsky, is the 21-day Challenge. The deal offers 54 meals (one serving) and 44 smoothies at a cost of R3,500.A large range of vegetarian and vegan options are available.For those who are looking for a treat, Fit Chef sells a small range of sweet treats and a range of snacks, "as low carb as possible", says Kaminsky, adding that portion control is key to weight control.Fit Chef has factories in Johannesburg, Cape Town, KwaZulu-Natal, Knysna, Port Elizabeth and Richards Bay. And it is growing, says Kaminsky.Kaminsky also offers cooking classes. Participants are taught how to make their own wholesome meals and pack these into containers to take home and freeze.Classes cost R2,650 which includes the meals.Visit Fitchef.co.za