Wales secured a 33-30 win over Japan at the Principality (Millennium) Stadium last Saturday and the result hasn t gone down well either. Flyhalf Sam Davies kicked a last minute drop-goal to spare their blushes against the Brave Blossoms and as a result Saturday s meeting with the Boks is shaping up as a battle of former great rugby teams. Former Welsh players have laid into the home team for their performances under interim coach Rob Howley which included a heavy 32-8 loss to Australia two weeks ago. Allister Coetzee mum on future Wales coaches and players should be ashamed because this was another yes another abysmal and unacceptable performance legendary prop Graham Price wrote in his Walesonline column. What have Wales been doing in the 12 months or so since the World Cup?"They should have rebuilt the team or evolved it and the coaches have done neither. It s a shambles and I get the impression the players don t know what they are supposed to be doing. More than a year has been wasted. We have seen how England New Zealand Australia Argentina Ireland and dare I say it little old Japan are rebuilding and developing their games but Wales are stuck in the same old ways. Price could have been writing about the Springboks as well. Former great flyhalf Phil Bennett wrote in the Sunday Mirror: Wales have gone backwards- they are a confused team struggling for a new identity but they continually drop the pass."After three matches this year it is clear that other nations are rushing past us. The Welsh are also wary of a Springbok backlash after South Africa slumped to a first ever loss to Italy losing 20-18 in Florence which was their seventh defeat in 11 Tests this year. Speaking on the BBC former Wales wing Shane Williams said he believes the Boks would come out with nothing to lose but that Wales could manage the physicality. "Wales are one of the most physical teams in the world and you use that to your advantage " Williams said. "Initially you get into an arm wrestle and you try and get ascendancy on a team."The scrum's gone pretty well and the driving mauls that we didn't see on the weekend were pretty good leading up to the game. "Wales have got good enough players to go head to head with South Africa score points and score tries and really put them under pressure. "South Africa are hurting and this is a game Wales should win." - TMG Digital