The 27-year-old started against England yesterday and is now the first-choice scrumhalf, and he was able to acknowledge how fortunate he is, despite the team's struggles.Wilton Pietersen, a schoolmate from his days at Outeniqua High, was a more talented player than Paige, but lost his rugby career in a car accident. Paige knows that every chance has to be seized. More misery heaped upon Boks"I grew up in a house with faith and I'm thankful for the blessings in my life," Paige says. "To get to this point in a career, many things have had to go your way to be sitting here. So many things could take it away in a moment."Paige has usurped Faf de Klerk as the Boks' starting scrumhalf for the foreseeable future and it's now up to him to take the opportunity.Bok coach Allister Coetzee rates Paige's ability to manage a game with astute kicking and speedy service. Paige is not a flashy scrumhalf, but someone who likes to keep the machinery of the team ticking over.He made his first test start against the Wallabies at Loftus last month and gave an encouraging 50-minute performance before he was clattered and concussed.The injury kept Paige out of the following week's match against the All Blacks in Durban, which meant he was untainted by the record 57-15 defeat. Although as a Springbok that loss hurt just as much as if he had played.An international apprenticeship behind Fourie du Preez and Ruan Pienaar has given him an unparalleled insight to the demands of test halfback play."Going to the 2015 World Cup, I knew my chances would be limited and I was okay with that," Paige says. "My focus point at the World Cup was to learn because I was playing with two great scrumhalves in Fourie and Ruan."In my opinion Fourie is the greatest South African all-round scrumhalf and Ruan probably has the best kicking game of any scrumhalf in the world."So I just tried to absorb as much as I could - how they prepared for a game, how they acted once it was done and most importantly how they performed under pressure."I wanted to earn a test cap [which he did against the US in pool play] but my biggest goal was to come out of the tournament a better player. I think I did."I learnt what's expected from a scrumhalf but also about what pressure there is on you as a Springbok from the fans. People have high expectations and expect high standards from players.The World Cup made me a stronger player mentally because I had a much better understanding of what being a Springbok entails." All Blacks run in 10 tries against ItaliansPaige's gregarious personality is a natural team enhancer and the positive energy he exudes is increasingly important to the Boks - especially during this difficult season.As the son of a pastor, talking is in Paige's DNA."My personality is naturally vibrant so I enjoy bringing energy to the team," Paige says. "It does irritate opponents sometimes and even occasionally my teammates."Communicating comes naturally to me and I see it as my job to make sure the guys are upbeat and enjoying themselves, especially in difficult times."If I'm not selected I will still be buzzing around the camp trying to give positivity to the rest of the group. That's my job for the week whether I'm in or out because the team is always first."But I also want to start matches."It's vital for a scrumhalf to play regularly, mainly so that your decision-making is sharp and consistent. You're up to speed and make important decisions more naturally."When you haven't played for three weeks and then go into a pressure situation is mentally tough."sports@timesmedia.co.za