"He said to me, if I am not willing to go on he would help me. I basically told him to go to hell."That was 23 years ago, when she was 24.Burger, of Pretoria, now works with disabled people and is married to a man who is also in a wheelchair.On Friday she was at the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein to hear a case on whether terminally ill people with intractable mental or physical suffering have the constitutional right to ask a doctor to help them die. Porn, beer to end of daysHer own experience gave her an "extreme interest" in euthanasia.She remembers how vulnerable she was when the doctor approached her. Yet she never reported him.Burger is opposed to euthanasia and said the argument for the right of terminally ill people to die with dignity suggested that people who were disabled or suffering did not have dignity. "We all have off days when you dip downwards, but tomorrow you feel better. If you have assisted suicide, it may be too late."Friday's court proceedings were the latest step in a legal debate that began in April last year in the High Court in Pretoria, where cancer patient Robin Stransham-Ford won the right to die with a doctor's help. He had argued that his suffering and helplessness affronted his right to dignity.The Department of Justice, the Health Department, the National Prosecuting Authority and the Health Professions Council of South Africa appealed the judgment.The case before the SCA was an "extraordinary situation", said Judge Carole Lewis.Stransham-Ford had won the right to die two hours after he had died naturally.The government departments and the HPCSA have asked for the order to be struck down because, unknown to the high court judge, Stransham-Ford had already died.HPCSA advocate Harry van Bergen told the court: "It ought to be set aside and that should be the end of the matter." The answer for the terminally ill is palliative care. This would provide emotional support and pain control and allow patients to die in a hospice or at home The HPCSA obtained Stransham-Ford's medical records through a court order. It claimed his family delayed telling his doctor of his death so the judgment could go ahead.This was not true, said Dignity South Africa spokeswoman Lee Last, speaking on behalf of Stransham-Ford's former wife, Penelope. "When someone dies, time stops," Last said.Burger and the HPCSA said the legalisation of doctor-assisted suicide could become a "slippery slope", allowing people who were disabled or perceived to be a burden to make a decision to die.Advocates for the right to die said in court that there could be strict safeguards to prevent abuse of the law. The Centre for Applied Legal Studies' court papers quoted a doctor from Oregon in the US who said patients had to answer many questions to check their motives. Judge tears into 'deplorable' accident lawyerFriday's court arguments debated whether the constitutional right to dignity allowed the dying to ask for a doctor's help to end their suffering.The centre said that dignity in life also allowed dignity in choosing how to end one's life.Lewis asked state advocate Lindi Nkosi-Thomas SC how she would "protect the [constitutional] right to dignity and autonomy".The answer for the terminally ill, according to Burger, the state and the HPCSA, was palliative care. This would provide emotional support and pain control and allow patients to die in a hospice or at home.However, the state provides limited financial help in palliative care.Liz Gwyther of the Hospice Palliative Care Association of South Africa told the Sunday Times: "We estimate that 17.8% of patients who require palliative care are receiving it. Palliative care is mostly provided in the underfunded NGO sector."Hospices that provided end-of-life care received on average 10% of their funding from the government, she said."In 2011 we had 201 member hospices, but we now have 148. Most have closed because of [a lack of] funding."The SCA could strike down the high court ruling because it was made after Stransham-Ford's death. Or it could refer the debate to parliament for a law change, or to uphold the law.Judgment was reserved.childk@thetimes.co.za