Coetzee's job will come under review by SA Rugby in the coming weeks and it will take some creative justification to keep the coach on if results are the only criteria used to measure his performance.Prior to the Welsh match, the Boks had won only four of 11 tests and were on track for their worst season since readmission to international rugby in 1992.Poor results, a muddled game plan and inconsistent selections are evidence that Coetzee has been thrashing about, slightly out of his depth at this level after a good, if not stellar, provincial coaching career. Allister Coetzee, a victim of a crumbling South African rugby systemThe Sunday Times has learned that among his key performance indicators (KPI) is a clause to ensure the Boks play a more attractive style of rugby. How that clause could be implemented, let alone measured, is a mystery.Another KPI is meeting transformation targets, which were set at 35% black player representation this year. If the non-test against the Barbarians is included, then Coetzee's Boks have met that target.But in terms of performance and results, it's difficult to justify Coetzee's continued employment.He has tried to defend a season that included a first home loss against Ireland (who played 62 minutes with 14 men); a first away defeat against Argentina; a record 57-15 loss against the All Blacks in Durban and, most deflating, last week's 20-18 loss to Italy. It was the first time the Six Nations basement dwellers, Italy, have beaten the Boks in 13 attempts.Coetzee's excuses have worn thin each week as he bemoaned lack of finishing and errors as reasons for defeats - always defending "the plan" and "the preparation".The coach has rightly pointed to systematic problems within local rugby. A dearth of skills, conditioning and game intelligence are all issues he has directly or indirectly complained about. The lack of time he has to prepare the players has also been used as a reason - and they are valid complaints. But they are not new.His predecessor Heyneke Meyer complained about the same issues but ended his four-year tenure with a 67% winning ratio and effectively fired. Meyer's first year in 2012 saw the Boks only lose two of 12 tests. The failings of Springbok coach Allister CoetzeeAsked whether he had enough credit in the bank with his employers, Coetzee said defiantly: "I have a four-year contract."One theme used as a defence to keep Coetzee on is that the Springboks can't afford to start at zero again next year. Yet, can they afford to start at zero in 2018 if results don't improve next season?There are shades of Rudolf Straeuli's disastrous term between 2002 and 2003 about the current Coetzee reign.After a 53-3 thrashing by England at Twickenham in 2002, Straeuli asked to be judged on results at the 2003 World Cup. That ended with two more hidings by England and the All Blacks and the embarrassment of Kamp Staaldraad.Coetzee is too decent to put players through a demeaning military-style camp, but is he the right man to change Bok rugby's fortunes? So far the evidence is overwhelmingly against that possibility.sports@timesmedia.co.za