Choose your holiday dates carefullyMost hotels and B&amp;Bs offer high-season and low-season rates. Low season is usually cheaper, but pay attention to the weather during the low season, as it might be freezing cold.If you plan your holiday during bad weather you could spend most of your time indoors.And unless the purpose of the holiday is to attend a specific event, avoid going away during festivals or big sporting events because accommodation in and flights to that destination will be a lot more expensive. Beat those Janu-worry financial bluesFly cheapPlan your holiday around flight promotions. You can create alerts across different airline websites so that you get updates on any promotions they may be running.When booking your flight, you can save money by forgoing things such as seat selection. Pack light so you don't have to pay extra for overweight luggage.If you're going overseas, compare stopover flights carefully. Flights with stopovers in the United Arab Emirates are usually cheaper than flights with a stopover in Europe. Depending on the layover time, you might be able to squeeze in a quick tour around the city. Don't forget about visa costs.Make use of websites such as travelstart.co.za to compare flights and look for fares that include accommodation as they may be cheaper.Use Airbnb or Couchsurfing.comIf you don't find a cheap airfare-and-accommodation combo, Airbnb offers a mostly cheaper alternative to hotels.The upside is that you may be able to negotiate check-in and check-out times, and by meeting local people you may discover places off the tourist track.If you want free accommodation, visit Couchsurfing.com. You can score a night, or three, on someone's couch for nothing.Take a train or overnight busIf you want to save on accommodation costs, take an overnight train or bus to your destination. Travelling at night means you have more time during the day to explore, and you skip on the cost of a night's accommodation.Walk, cycle or use public transportHiring a car is expensive. Using public transport or cycling can save money where walking isn't an option. You can also buy a travel pass, which will take care of your cost of getting around at a lower price. Car insurance snags to keep in mindArrange your own sightseeing toursBuying a travel guide and figuring out your way around a city could end up being a lot cheaper than joining a guided tour. Always have a map and your phone to make sure you don't get lost. The map will come in handy should your phone run out of power.Save on data costsFind accommodation with access to Wi-Fi. Roaming costs can weigh heavily on your budget, so make sure you trim down where possible. If there's no Wi-Fi, you might keep your communication limited to a phone call or text a day.Don't go overboard with foodFood is part of a new experience, but it can burn a hole in your pocket. Forgo breakfast for an on-the-go snack, have a light lunch and go heavy on dinner, or alternate.But if your travel deal includes breakfast as part of the package, make the most of that meal, and have a snack for lunch and then a decent dinner.