Now called The Cosmopolitan, this beautiful 1899 heritage building situated directly opposite the Museum of African Design brings together fashion, cuisine, art, and design in a unique, interactive, and cutting-edge way.Having opened earlier this year, The Cosmopolitan founders Jonathan Freemantle and Daniel Liebmann have created a relevant and dynamic lifestyle experience within the framework of urban regeneration and city heritage .5 highlights of Joburg's hip new art & design hubBetween them, Freemantle and Liebmann have an impressive history in the world of both art and urban regeneration.After living abroad for 18 years, during which time he co-founded the Edinburgh International Fashion Festival, Freemantle returned to South Africa and has been widely exhibited as an artist, most recently at the Standard Bank Gallery.Liebmann, an experienced businessman, fashion designer, and retail curator, has also been heavily involved in the Maboneng Precinct urban regeneration project since its inception.Together, these two impressive creative entrepreneurs have exquisitely curated a unique luxury experience in the city.Hazard Gallery, which takes up one wing of The Cosmopolitan, is the definite heart of the building. Spread across five rooms on the upper floor, the gallery shows exciting local and international talent in a refreshing and dynamic way. And if art isn t really your thing, the upstairs rooms also play home to stores stocking fashion, homeware, and beauty products.</img>Housing the Hazard Gallery, there's art aplenty at The Cosmopolitan in Joburg's Maboneng Precinct. Image: SuppliedHousing the Hazard Gallery, there's art aplenty at The Cosmopolitan in Joburg's Maboneng Precinct. Image: SuppliedIn the words of The Cosmopolitan team, The products have been carefully selected and curated for their unique take on classic, timeless but contemporary style. The juxtaposition of current art and fashion in such a historical space the boutiques are situated in what were the original hotel rooms offers a really unique retail experience, unlike anything else in the city. And if you re looking for a culinary treat at The Cosmopolitan there are ample choices. Casual coffee is available from Firebird Coffee roastery; tea tasting can be done at Yswara tea salon and for a real treat, sample the incredible cocktails from one of the oldest bars in Joburg, or have dinner in chef Dario d Angeli s new restaurant, The Cube at the Cosmopolitan. This article is adapted from one originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.