SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)All those admirers are wonderful for the ego. But make sure they've got something constructive to do besides gaze in adoration. Everyone knows delegation is not your thing, but unless you learn fast you'll find yourself running not just your show, but theirs as well. How about that for motivation? Besides, this is your fun week. Don't waste it fretting about who's in charge.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Romance is always good, even though it's not your strong point. Since you've been thinking about moving in a different direction, your actions have become hesitant. Stop that. Rather do nothing at all than dilly around with someone's feelings. Get back your sense of self. The planets are taking you in unexpected directions. You can always come back if you don't like what you see.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)You're tired. So what? Are you going to beat yourself up for being feeble, or allow yourself a break? When the body needs time off, it takes it whether you like it or not. So avoid illness and sit down. If you truly think the world will collapse without you, you'd better take another look at that ego. There's no need to worry about the career. It's taking care of itself. Watch and learn.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Convinced everyone is being paralysed by ancient history when they ought to be moving on? Look again. Some useful items could come to light from under the rubble. This could lead to a new direction for you or at least a new deal. Be patient. You'll be in a better negotiating position if you can hang in. Your refusal to judge is working against you. Make some choices; ones you can live with.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Here's your instruction for the week: resolve all family issues at once, before they blow up in your face. Yes, that means potentially disagreeing with everyone in the room. Either way, as you know, even if you manage to weasel out of the main event, you always end up being blamed for the drama. May as well choreograph the dance and enjoy the show. Then do something you enjoy.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Almost forgotten fears are bubbling up from the bottom of your soul, appearing as weird dreams or anxieties. Let them show themselves in their full splendour. You'll discover they're far less threatening up close. And for the scarier moments, make use of a support system you've forgotten you had. Most of all, call on your courage and warrior instinct. You know how you love a good fight.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)As you've probably noticed, things - relationships in particular - only get complicated when you let them. The main reason for the drama is that you insist on keeping so many secrets. When are you going to learn to trust someone? Better start soon. You're going to need a friend as you move into a space you haven't been before. Change is hard for you. Share your fears. Take the plunge.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Don't let anyone tell you the world is not a wonderful place. As you're discovering, reality is largely about perception. Right now, your enthusiasm is vibrant enough to be contagious. There's a chance of an energy dip on the horizon, but that's more about your emotional needs than your physical health. Wait. Change is coming. Those really big dreams are on the verge of coming true.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Dancing on the tables may not be the best way to show off your numerous talents, but with a little of that fabulous imagination you could certainly come up with a more appropriate performance. Don't you dare start that coy thing; rather dig deep. Find the part of you that loves the limelight. Either way, the planets are shoving you into different forms of self-expression. Play a little.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)An old love pops up, bringing feelings you thought you'd forgotten. Use the experience to remind yourself how irresistible you are. But take care not to upset any applecarts before you've hand-picked your favourites. Don't make any big decisions yet. Wait for the energies to play themselves out. Take note that creative energies are buzzing all around you, waiting for direction. Dive in.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Think brilliant ideas and magical plans. Examine those extraordinary senses and discover what each has to offer. While you're waiting for the planets to kick in, think about your love life. Ask yourself what you can do to make your wishes come true. Somehow you've forgotten that it's your job to make yourself happy. It is not, however, your job to make anyone else happy. List your goals.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Those artistic leanings and desires to share your passions are pushing you to take exciting risks. Despite the conservatism of those around you, your enthusiasm could pull them out of their ruts. Don't let anyone intimidate you into chickening out. The planet of luck and abundance is in your pocket - awaiting direction. And don't fret about your love life. For now, let the planets decide.