 Now there are 40 or 50 said Pike and Wavescape has grown beyond our wildest dreams. The 13th festival gets under way tomorrow with a celebrity braai the Fish Fry and a debut photographic exhibition. And the vision has moved beyond the original aim of screening surf films to positioning Cape Town as one of the world s adventure capitals.Central to this is a project to develop filmmaking talent in partnership with Wesgro. Shortcuts will mentor young filmmakers with the best work screened on Clifton beach at next year s festival. Part of the goal of this is to work with tourism authorities to develop Cape Town s adventure profile said Pike. We want to attract other filmmakers from around the world to come and shoot here using our expertise and equipment. Pike has dusted off his artistic skills to translate a big wave doodle that obsessed him as a teenager into artwork that adorns one of 10 boards that will be auctioned next week in aid of ocean charities.Another innovation is the TedTalks-style Slide Night at the Centre for the Book featuring 10 salty tales by 10 ocean gurus including extreme adventurer Riaan Manser and Wesgro head Tim Harris reliving his African surf odyssey. Scientists lack a public platform and in some ways we can provide it with this event said Pike. But the whole festival is really exciting in terms of the feel-good factor and the contribution it makes to conservation. </img>The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Sasha Specker The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Sasha Specker </img>The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Grant Scholtz The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Grant Scholtz </img>The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Sasha Specker The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Sasha Specker </img>The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Simon Heale-Lexar The Wavescape Festival this year includes an exhibition of the year's best surfing and ocean photographs from the Cape Peninsula. Image: Simon Heale-Lexar See www.wavescapefestival.com TMG Digital/The Times