Some time last year I found myself on the M41, driving from the Gateway shopping mall towards Mount Edgecombe.My destination? The humble abode of a friend of 18 years, Dr Phelelani Sosibo, otherwise known as Dr P. His townhouse is popularly known as the headquarters of the Men of Thurst Records, a music record label.The first rule of Fight Club is to never talk about Fight Club. And the first rule of the Men of Thurst Records House is: never enter without bringing some beer. So I stopped and bought a dozen Hansa dumpies. Yeah, the accountants' beer.When I got there I was met by one Sguqa, who promptly opened a Hansa and downed it in one long, lusty gulp. Apparently, they had run out. One of the other Men of Thurst says to Sguqa, "But we've been drinking Castle Lite all morning. Now you're drinking Hansa?" Your secrets are not safe with anyoneWithout missing a beat, Sguqa finishes his beer, belches and retorts, "I don't drink the printing on the label. I drink beer."Alcohol snobbery has been eating away at the fabric of our society since Mbeki and his merry men with too many degrees brought BEE to us.Black people will identify with this next bit. When I was growing up, the plebs drank home-made sorghum beer. The blue collar factory worker and mineworker type drank beer and white spirits.The upper crust of civil servants such as doctors, lawyers, teachers, magistrates and court interpreters drank "red spirits", mostly brandy and, on rare occasions, whisky.If you came from eKoloni (the Eastern Cape), there wasn't even any distinction between spirits, white or red. Everything was called ibranti , from brandy to whisky, rum, vodka, gin or whatever. Those were the good ol' days.Fast-forward to 2016 and the era of BEE and wealthy darkies with cash. Since the Year of our Lord 1994, my tipple of choice has been Jack Daniels. A friend who studied in the US, Kindisa Ngubeni, introduced me to the poison at his Berea flat.Two years before, I had watched the Hollywood flick Scent of a Woman, where Jack Daniel's features prominently - or, as Al Pacino's character calls it, John Daniel's, because "when you've known him as long as I have, you can call him anything".Oh, I get a lot of flak for my preference for bourbon. Former editor of this rag and notorious alcohol snob Mondli Makhanya called me a "remorseless philistine" during an all-nighter on Durban's Florida Road when I insisted on my trusty Jack. Dropping the snobbery will save all of us from the ignominy of having to purchase Russian Bear vodka and decant it into Grey Goose bottles to impress friends A former columnist on this same paper, Fred Khumalo, called me an unrepentant peasant when I explained that I'd rather drink Jack than his expensive scotch.The snobbery around booze has encroached on our cultural practices. In KZN, alcohol is a major source of social stratification during family functions. When you go to Makro to stock up you buy three kinds of booze:first, drinks for your professional friends - the Singleton, Balvenie, Hennessy, SKYY, Grey Goose, Mo t &amp; Chandon, Veuve.Next come Amarula, JC le Roux and Savanna Dry for the aunties and cousins, and then you buy booze for the plebs - crates of 750ml returnables comprising Castle, Hansa and Zamalek (that's Carling Black Label for the benefit of the mlungus) and a bottle of vodka for each crate of beer.By "vodka", I mean Smirnoff 1818 in the original label. Apparently, Zulu ancestors are extremely specific about their preferred brand during the "angel's share" moment. You don't believe me? Buy Belvedere next time and report back on findings. Zulus are as passionate about Smirnoff as they are about skulking around Saxonwold. Oh, I almost forgot - allegedly. Boarding school teaches you invaluable life lessonsBut let's leave the Zulus alone for a moment. Can we just agree that this nation is in the grip of the worst form of booze snobbery in recent memory? It's just alcohol, folks. Booze. Ethanol. Poison, really. Why don't we all just drink what agrees with our respective palates?At a recent event, a woman I did not know from a bottle of Jack sidled up to me: "I'm drinking this glass of Mo t because my boyfriend says it's the best. Honestly, I'd rather be drinking JC le Roux because I like what it tastes like."About nine years ago a friend and I attended a party in Centurion. The host was so mortified that we rocked up with a bottle of Jack that he sent someone to give us a tin canister of Singleton for us to "disguise" our inferior spirit lest we embarrass him in front of his posh guests.Dropping the snobbery will save all of us from the ignominy of having to purchase Russian Bear vodka and decant it into Grey Goose bottles to impress friends who will open the bottle and immediately "dash" it with cranberry juice 1:5.And while we're at it, let's stop the judgment of women who love beer. I can't think of anything sexier than a woman who drinks beer. Preferably out of a brown bottle. Beer is the nectar of the gods. And who deserves gifts from the gods more than women? If you're with me, join my #BoozeSnobberyMustFall hashtag on Twitter.Follow Ndumiso Ngcobo on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo.