"I am very happy that justice is being served and I am feeling positive that everything will work out " she told TMG Digital on Thursday."I am relieved with the outcome of the ANC s ruling that Marius Fransman be suspended from the party. The ANC has handled this process in a professional way and I am grateful for that. They really did a thorough investigation into all of the allegations and the truth led them to their finding. "I am glad this part of the process has been finalised. I am especially relieved for my family who has been my constant pillar and support structure throughout this time. ANC suspends Fransman for five years"This is one small step on our road to victory. No woman in this country should go through the abuse I suffered. I am still picking up the pieces but I am stronger now more than ever. My energies are now focused on the criminal investigation that lay ahead " she said. Fransman has been found guilty of two counts of misconduct the ANC national disciplinary committee (NDC) confirmed on Thursday. "I am extremely happy for the outcome of the NDC report. This is a step in the right direction and we as the family firstly want to thank the Lord as we had him all the way. "We would also like to thank each and every person that stood by us every step of the way '' said her brother Ashley Wynand. The committee said that Fransman had abused "his office for the purpose of attempting to obtain a sexual favour from Louisa Wynand and for making public statements which brought the ANC into disrepute". It found both charges to be "very serious and suspended his ANC membership for five years". "The NDC said that the charged member showed no political understanding of one of the fundamental objectives of the ANC viz the support for and advancement of women s emancipation " the NDC said. "As a provincial leader in the ANC he should have known about the triple oppression of South African women and the giant strides being made by the ANC to accord women their rights and help them to overcome their oppression." The statement also said Fransman "deliberately misled the public when he said that he did not receive documents to enable him to prepare for his disciplinary hearing whereas in truth he was given all the relevant documents he needed to prepare his defence". "The charged member did not attend the hearing and showed no remorse for his misconduct." Last week TMG Digital reported that Fransman sent his lawyer to the hearing that is set to continue on Friday. The party s integrity committee launched an investigation after Wynand reported the matter to police. It then recommended action against Fransman. The hearing which was chaired by Minister of Women in the Presidency Susan Shabangu was held behind closed doors at the Good Hope Building in Parliament. Fransman blames woes on MantasheLeading the ANC s case was Uriel Abrahamse who successfully prosecuted Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema and who was ANC Youth League president at the time. In an earlier statement Fransman said among the reasons for not attending was ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe s failure to make good on promises to supply documents related to the hearing. "I refuse to be part of a faction at Luthuli House s war of the jungle where there s disrespect for organisational protocols and where those who are giving support to this faction are supported irrespective of their wrongdoings " he said. Mantashe declined to comment except to add: "I don t want to be part of this and I didn t speak with Marius." The ANC Western Cape welcomed the outcome of the disciplinary on Thursday saying that it had "full confidence in the work of the NDC". It thanked Fransman for "over 20 years of unbroken service to our movement". Provincial spokesman Yonela Diko said the incident had highlighted several lessons. "The biggest lesson... of all which is truly regrettable is the evident truth that more effort is needed in building relationships among our leaders."And we take this as a lesson that when our leaders address each other publicly and negatively instead of a typical home visit or call where there may exist differences reflects lack of deeper and meaningful relationships among ourselves. Whatever the circumstances the comradeship which must by definition possess an intrinsic revolutionary value to all of us must be observed." TMG Digital