In a world where you can make a car and driver appear in seconds, is it impressive that a guy in a suit can make a dove appear from a hat?In this age of "magical" technology, artist Mo Magic has a tough job. So, of course, he includes technology in his act.Is TV's Mo Magic as magical live?At a coffee shop in Rosebank, Joburg, my self-signed playing card, the two of diamonds, dated with a marker, disappeared into the magician's iPhone and with a snap of deft fingers, reappeared in his opened hand. The phone was in front of me the whole time, or was it? Gobsmacked, heart rate elevated, you can only try to work out what happened like a gaping fish with a daft look on your face."The aim is always delight and astonishment ... and entertainment," says Mahommed Moorad with an enigmatic, wizardly smile, his eyebrows curling mesmerisingly.People turn to look at the spectacle as they did when he started out performing at Mugg &amp; Bean coffee shops around the country a decade ago."We are in an information age, people have shorter attention spans. Technology is really magic in itself but it means we are losing our sense of wonder."He aims to bring it back.Moorad's hands are quicker than the average brain, but his brain must function on another level to comprehend, concoct and then mystify with his mathematical mentalism tricks, or effects, as he prefers to call them.There are no rabbits, hats or doves in sight, thankfully. But he does wear a tuxedo."If you know how technology works, it takes away the wonder, doesn't it?" he says when I try to work out how he made a piece of jewellery reappear in a highly unlikely place at his Joburg theatre performance the evening before. There were several "WTF" moments in Magic Mo's show that fans might have put down to tricks of the camera From Durban, Moorad, 35, is an electrical engineer who left amperes behind for another sort of invisible entity. He could be a professional thief ... no need, he can turn R50 notes into R100s with the snap of a finger. Perhaps a future at the Treasury is in order.Moorad cannot turn water into wine, unfortunately. "My name is Mahommed, not Jesus," he says on stage. There are also theatrical elements, like a spooky, dimly lit armchair and floating furniture. They are part of an act that has developed over 14 years.He found his calling during a study break in his engineering course at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, when British magician David Blaine appeared on TV. Something sparked in Moorad's mind.He started practising, and used the university campus as a testing ground for sleight-of-hand card tricks. He started off learning from books and a mentor. He watched others perform illusions then found a way to mimic them (magicians don't often share secrets)."The techniques are like an elegant dance. Like footballers, their moves must be so perfect that they appear effortless and amazing. I love this, so I spend hours working on it. The irony is I spend so much time learning a skill you will never see ... or what you think you didn't see," he says.After dabbling in engineering for a few years, he dived into the top hat and didn't come back out.WATCH Mo Magic in action:Mo Magic Moorad found himself on tour in the UK, in Sweden at the World Championships of Magic (yes, it exists, along with several magic schools and associations around the world), and performing in Dubai, around Africa and at home.Since 2010, magic has had his full attention.The theatre show is a follow-on to a television run on SABC 3 this year. During one episode he made a wedding ring reappear kilometres away. There were several "WTF" moments that fans might have put down to tricks of the camera. "I am thrilled the TV show was so well received, but the theatre show has been a dream come true. The audience reactions are rewarding like nothing else I have done."It is not a children's show per se, but good family entertainment. "The show is about sharing the art of magic as I see it, with South Africans."In January he heads to Las Vegas, to mingle with other magic folk, attend seminars and discuss trends.He says there was no conscious decision to follow this path. "I put it out in the universe, took some inspired action and it has become personally fulfilling in a way I never imaged." That's magic. 5 MAGIC TIPS FROM MO 1) Have a clear intention of why you perform magic, i.e. to delight and entertain as opposed to doing tricks.2) Understand that the trick (technique) is only a part of the experience. Mastering the technique is imperative to present the trick effortlessly, but does not define the magical experience.3) Audience participation is imperative and will elevate your magic. Respect your audience and involve them.4) Make your performance contemporary and appealing by incorporating props, tricks and presentations that emotionally engage audiences, e.g. performing magic with money.5) Practise in private (using a mirror or video camera) then, when ready, perform for family or friends.