In the shuttle to our hotel in New York at 2am, we are feeling pretty jaded. Then suddenly we're on the Brooklyn Bridge with the lights of Manhattan in front of us and it's magical!The city lights twinkle and glow in the darkness and are reflected in the water of the East River. Your ultimate guide to New York City's best attractionsAcross the bridge, we can see for ourselves that New York never sleeps. There are people on the streets and eating in dimly lit diners. Yellow cabs still move purposely through the traffic.The foyer of our hotel is large and done out in art-deco style. Our room is on the 49th floor!Next morning in the diner our eyes widen at the heaped breakfast plates. Thick slices of French toast with maple syrup and bacon plus two eggs and sausages; followed by toast and enormous paper mugs of coffee.We decide then and there to share one portion.In the streets, we crane our necks to take in the extraordinarily tall buildings that tower over us, blotting out most of the sunshine.We soon learn to do this while flattened against a shop window or risk being knocked over by throngs of people walking purposefully in both directions.I am reminded of James Thurber's dry comment: "All human beings should try to learn before they die what they are running from, and to, and why."On the hop-on, hop-off bus, we are fascinated by the architecture: the Empire State, the beautiful Chrysler building, the Flatiron and even a block of apartments looking like a toddler's ineptly created block tower, with rooms that jut out over the streets below.We ride along 5th Avenue, admiring the gorgeous window displays and take photos of the iconic Times Square. On the guide's advice, we visit Junior's Restaurant for lunch. Even halved, the plate is full but we still manage the famous New York cheesecake - apple with crumble. It is delicious!That evening, we take a cab to the Metropolitan Opera. It meets all my expectations: a striking, glass-fronted exterior; inside the red carpet divides and sweeps up two curved staircases to the next level.The chandeliers - a fairly modern design resembling giant snowflakes - are breathtaking and the lower level extends into a glass-fronted restaurant.La Boh me is magnificently performed with the most beautiful sets by Franco Zeffirelli. It is a truly memorable experience. I ask for one scoop and am given two. 'I only wanted one scoop.' The assistant stares at me. 'That is one scoop.' I give up and enjoy it to the last lick We take the hop-on, hop-off water taxi for a magnificent view of the New York skyline and a close-up look at the famous Statue of Liberty.I am moved by the inscription: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me; I lift my lamp beside the golden door." - Emma Lazarus, 1883.We hop off to explore Brooklyn Park and taste their famous ice cream. I ask for one scoop and am given two."I only wanted one scoop."The assistant stares at me. "That is one scoop." I give up and enjoy it (coffee-flavoured) to the last lick.Even with limited time, we manage to walk the High Line, a path bordered by flowers and shrubs, elevated above street level.It has been created over a disused railway line and is a far more pleasant way to see New York than the crowded pavements.With some trepidation (totally unfounded), we venture onto the subway. It is cleaner and more spacious that the London Underground although the trains are a little less frequent. 5 family-friendly things to do in New YorkWe ride to Central Park, a real oasis in this hectic city. I buy hot, honey-roasted almonds from a vendor, which are seriously yummy!We walk through Strawberry Fields, an area dedicated to John Lennon. Nearby, people are rowing boats on the lake under drooping willows. A horse clip clops past, pulling a trap painted bright yellow.Outside one of the gates, a woman is loudly haranguing a crowd to take a stand against rape. Some carry placards; one says, "Dump Trump".On our last morning, determined to experience at least one big department store, we go to Macy's. It is huge and very noisy and I feel exhausted just looking at the endless rails of clothing. In the end, we go to the restaurant on the top floor, enjoy pizza and cappuccinos, and leave the shop.Although New Yorkers are more brusque than people in Boston, for instance, they are helpful and not unfriendly. Part of the trick is finding someone who speaks English - especially if your Spanish and Mandarin are not up to par! Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World'. Send your photos - at least 500KB - and a previously unpublished story of no more than 800 words. All winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za