The 35-year-old single mother from Zebediela village in Limpopo said that although she had been called a "cockroach" after pictures of the incident went viral this week, she was unfazed."I was suffering from a stomach ulcer for years and doctors in Zimbabwe and South Africa could not help me. The pain was worse that day. I hadn't eaten for three days, so I asked Papa to pray for me. He sprayed the can all over my body. I even swallowed the substance," she said.SACC slams 'Prophet of Doom' and others who prey on the desperate and ignorant "I was instantly cured."Marowa is one of many in her village who believe Pastor Lethebo Rabalago of the Mount Zion General Assembly Church can do no wrong - even after unconfirmed reports that a young woman died last year after he put a massive speaker on top of her to demonstrate God's power.The outrageous methods used by Rabalago - dubbed the Prophet of Doom on social media - have made international headlines.The incident follows reports of several pastors who use bizarre methods to "heal" their followers.Earlier this year, pictures were posted on social media of Pastor Penuel Mnguni of End Times Disciples Ministries driving over congregants in a car. Mnguni also caused a stir when he made followers eat snakes and a rat's tail.This week Mnguni posted a message of support on the Mount Zion Facebook page, saying he would rather go to jail than be robbed of his faith: "When a poison comes to the man of God, it is no more a poison [than] a blessing from above ... My brother prophet Lethebo be strengthened in Christ Jesus, go forward with the work of the father."A visit to Zebediela this week found many staunch supporters. They were not willing to say anything negative about Rabalago, who also claims to heal followers by making them hold fire and eat poisonous plants and washing powder.The pastor went to ground this week, saying he was at a conference in Cape Town. He refused to take calls. His services have been cancelled "until things have died down".On Friday the Limpopo health department was making plans to compel Rabalago to undergo psychiatric evaluation.Tiger Brands, manufacturers of the Doom insecticide, expressed alarm on Monday, issuing a warning that the product was not designed to be sprayed at or even near people.But Marowa said she had nothing to complain about. "Look at me, I'm not sick," she said.However, she admitted this week had been hard for her, as people from as far afield as her home country of Zimbabwe sent her nasty messages calling her stupid and a cockroach."They don't know the suffering I went through with my kids."Papa taught me how to pray. I joined his church in March last year and I have seen changes in my life. I now have a business selling clothes and blankets to villagers so I can support my children. People can talk all they want."Marowa showed the Sunday Times her can of Doom, which she said she bought to kill insects her house. "No, I wouldn't spray this on me, Papa did not pray for it," she said. Villagers and congregants, who spoke on condition of anonymity, praised Rabalago, referring to him as Dr Lethebo, or Detective Lethebo."He's gifted. Several months ago, he gave us a flowers to eat and people came to testify about how they were miraculously cured from cancer, HIV/Aids, headaches," said one church member.Limpopo health MEC Phophi Ramathuba said Rabalago was a danger to his congregants and to himself."We think he is hallucinating and seeing things. We know his congregants will not open a case against him because of fear. We will ask him to come forward for a mental evaluation. If he refuses, we will subpoena him," she said.ndabenik@sundaytimes.co.za