The pair have developed a closer connection since Williams, the winner of 22 majors, flew out to watch him race last month in Mexico, where he achieved the second of three successive victories to close his deficit to Nico Rosberg to just 12 points.They met again in Los Angeles after he prevailed in Brazil."We come from similar backgrounds and have similar relationships with our parents, with the father as the lead," Hamilton said. "Growing up watching her, I have been inspired by her - she is the greatest athlete of our generation today. I'm absolutely mesmerised by what she has accomplished. Every now and then she'll give me a bit of that magic in her words." Nico Rosberg pips Lewis Hamilton in final Brazil GP practiceHamilton cut a serene and self-assured figure as he prepared for this weekend's compelling confrontation in the desert where he must win, while hoping that Rosberg finishes fourth or worse, if he is to call himself a quadruple champion.The burden, he understood, was all on Rosberg not to let a once-comfortable championship lead slip from his grasp. As such, he wasn't afraid this week of throwing out the odd conspiracy theory to unsettle his rival.At one bizarre moment, Hamilton hinted that he was still pained by the decision to switch five of his mechanics to Rosberg's half of the garage earlier this season.When asked about the transfer of personnel, he turned to his teammate and said: "I want to hear the reason you were given." Later, he added: "You will have to buy the book in 10 years' time to find out exactly what happened. It will be an interesting read."Hamilton has indicated already that he was irritated by the switch, suggesting that it affected him psychologically.There was palpable emotion from Hamilton as he reflected on the recent passing of Aki Hintsa, the McLaren doctor and a mentor to him throughout his five years at the team.Hamilton, who paid a visit to Hintsa just before his death last week from cancer at the age of 58, described how the distress would heighten his resolve to win another title in the Finn's memory."I actually got to see him on the last day," he said. "We played music. I got to see him smile, to see the amazing man he was. Lewis Hamilton: A legend is built on doing things people remember vividly"He was instrumental in getting me the seat at McLaren. That he finished his life so early was definitely tough to see, but I come here with almost double the power, in the sense that I want to win this race for him."Hamilton, who drove superbly in the wet to finish first at the Brazilian Grand Prix, was in no doubt of the scale of the task he faced, telling the formula1.com website: "It's not been a perfect season and I'm faced with pretty impossible odds no matter what I do this weekend."I can't and won't give up. You never know what might happen - however unlikely it may seem," added Hamilton, plagued by reliability issues earlier this season."I'll be proud of myself and what I've achieved as long as I feel I've given my all and performed at my best. Whatever happens, I'm proud of everyone who's been a part of the success we've shared over the past few years."I'm approaching this weekend the same as I do every race. I want to win and I'll give it everything to finish the season on a high."Meanwhile, Rosberg, bidding to emulate his father Keke, the 1982 world champion, said: "In Brazil, after the race, I was joking that I would still be taking things one race at a time, but the more I think about it, the more that is actually not as crazy as it sounds. I have to treat this like any other race."The German added: "Nothing in this sport is easy, so this won't be any different and I still have to go all out for a good result."I have great memories from winning at this track last year and it's somewhere I've usually been strong in the past, so I have every reason to feel confident."- The Daily Telegraph, London and firstpost.com