Try: Est e Lauder New Nightwear Plus 3-Minute Detox Mask, R595 for 75ml.Why? This mask includes an antioxidant complex.Try: Nuxuriance Ultra Mask, R595 for 50ml.Why? The mask uses Bi-Florales cells Safran and bougainvillea, comprises 88% natural ingredients, and includes hyaluronic acid. It s ideal for daytime firming action: simply apply, and after 10 minutes, remove with a cotton pad. You can use the metal roller to cool skin, too, even without product.Try: Bobbi Brown Skin Nourish, R800.Why? This mask is intensely moisturising, and includes an aquatic hydrating herb called coral grass. Murumuru butter is super moisturising and helps restore the skin s natural barrier. Leave for five minutes and wipe the excess off with a tissue.Try: Dermalogica Charcoal Rescue Mask, R790.Why? This mask is kind of amazing. It uses special charcoal from the Japanese ubame oak, which has been used for years to purify water, deodorise air, and whiten teeth. It can absorb more than 1 000 times its weight in positively charged compounds.The formula includes sulphur, an anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory ingredient, as well as volcanic ash and alpha hydroxy acids, which act as exfoliators. Niacinamide and wild mint calm redness and refine pores. Try: Dior Jelly Sleeping Mask, R1,340.Why? This gel mask is light and airy in texture, which dehydrated skin loves. It also comes in cute-as-a-button, single-dose One Shot masks for on-the-go hydration. Try: Garnier Pure Active 3 in 1, R100.Why? This is a wash, scrub, and mask in one. Apply a thin layer and leave the ingredients to soak in, then gently add a bit of water and massage into skin. The pumice granules gently buff, and white clay absorbs oil to make pores look smaller and mattify skin. Try: Verso Deep Hydration Mask, R1,200 for pack of four.Why? This product comprises two gel-textured sheet masks one that fits the lower part of your face, and the other the upper section. It s cooling and tingles when it hits the skin especially if you re very dehydrated. Try: Clarins Extra Firming Mask, R705 for 75ml.Why? This mask includes organic green banana and lemon thyme to improve skin elasticity. Plus, palmitoyl glycine (a lipoamino acid) helps compensate for the effects of skin stretching, and has proven biological action to relax tension lines and smooth features. Mimosa and sunflower waxes add a moisturising comfort factor. Try: Skinceuticals Clarifying Clay Masque, R1,250.Why? This mask includes alpha hydroxy acids to exfoliate, and kaolin and bentonite clay to gently absorb impurities and excess oil. Chamomile and aloe make sure skin stays calm and happy. This article is adapted from one originally published in 'Sunday Times The Edit Spring/Summer '16'. Available to select print subscribers this magazine is your ultimate seasonal fashion guide. Digital subscribers, read 'The Edit' online now.