But Amakhosi have once again failed to land the signature of the much sought after Sibusiso Vilakazi of Bidvest Wits.The Sunday Times can reveal that Sundowns are close to completing Vilakazi's signing. Wits have put a R12-million price tag on the Bafana Bafana international.Downs have tabled an offer of money plus players going in the opposite direction to the Clever Boys.Evans Rusike, the 25-year-old Zimbabwean international striker who scored nine league goals for Maritzburg United last season, is also on the verge of moving to Chloorkop.Mphahele, 26, has signed a three- year contract with Amakhosi after failing to agree terms with Mamelodi Sundowns, whom he captained to a league and cup double last season.Sundowns offered the Bafana defender a R148000 monthly salary, but he took the Chiefs offer of R200000. "Sundowns made an offer and Ramahlwe wanted more than what they were prepared to pay, so he took the Chiefs offer," a source told the Sunday Times."My understanding is that the deal is a three plus one, plus one, which is basically three years plus with an option to renew for a further two."Edmore Chirambadare from Chicken Inn of Zimbabwe will be in Chiefs colours next season.His teammate and compatriot, Mitchell Katsavairo, 25, who scored a cracker when Chicken Inn beat Sundowns 1-0 at the Luveve Stadium in the Caf Champions League in February, is another new Amakhosi addition.Chiefs have their sights on another Zimbabwean, Kudakwashe Mahachi of Lamontville Golden Arrows.But Sundowns, who previously sold the 22-year-old midfielder to Arrows, want Mahachi back in their fold.The club has already confirmed the capture of Sibusiso Khumalo from SuperSport United.Midfielders Joseph Molangoane, 28, Keagan Buchanan, 25, and Ennocent Mkhabela, 27, from Chippa United, Bloemfontein Celtic and SuperSport United respectively are expected to be unveiled tomorrow.Emmanuel Letlotlo, the 19-year-old striker, has been promoted from the reserves. Chiefs have also signed Aviwe Nyamende, 23, the leftback from Edelbert Dinha's Shumba Football Academy.Jomo Cosmos striker Charlton Mashumba, 23, will not be among the new signings.Cosmos boss and coach Jomo Sono confirmed that Chiefs have enquired about the Zimbabwean."Bobby [Motaung] did approach me to ask about Mashumba three weeks ago. But he never came back. It is not only Chiefs. Sundowns, Wits and the new Cape Town club of John Comitis are also interested. Tough for SA, but not the worst draw"We want to release the player. He has been very loyal to us. We won't stand in his way," said Sono.Bantu Mzwakali, 22, is another who has been linked with Amakhosi but will not be joining.An Ajax Cape Town insider said about the midfielder, Mzwakali: "One of the bosses actually asked Chiefs about it and they said no."Mzwakali still has two years in his contract with us and he is staying put."Meanwhile, Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has not signed a new contract with the club.The club wants him to stay for another three seasons.Since assuming the reigns at Downs in 2012 Mosimane, who turns 52 next month, ended the trophy drought by capturing the league title twice plus the Nedbank and Telkom Knockout trophies."Sundowns have given Pitso a deal for three seasons. The delay is that there is a certain clause he wants inserted in the contract."The matter is with the lawyers. Both Pitso and Sundowns are confident of concluding a deal in a matter of days. [Sundowns president] Patrice [Motsepe] is happy to keep him," said an insider.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za