Tell us a bit about yourself. I grew up in Kagiso. I studied social innovation and entrepreneurship in Switzerland for three years. I am mother to Imitha, who is six years old. I love travelling, making things, and black culture.The Ninevites is a collaboration that explores narratives of life in southern Africa using textiles, images and design. What inspired you to start this project? I started the Ninevites in 2012 as a platform I could use to play with other like-minded creatives, make stuff and tell our stories. The inspiration came from wanting to tell our stories using textiles and audio-visual content as a way to counter how our culture is often portrayed in mainstream media.Tell us about your new rug collection. I design the rugs and conceptualise the prints before the weavers make them. They are hand woven and naturally dyed. I was experimenting with the idea of connecting South African patterns and South American craftmaking. I travelled to Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia and Colombia to research traditional textiles, meet weavers and learn about the different processes. It is the most beautiful and humbling experience to see weavers spin the wool, dye it and weave the rugs by hand for weeks, putting in a lot of love and passion.Good design is . . . simple, comfortable, practical and functional.Trends you love? I am enjoying how traditional weddings have become a thing again and how everyone is taking it to the next level with their styles and designs. It's refreshing and exciting.Trends you hate? The "blesser" trend.Which designers inspire you? I like Delpozo, based in Madrid; Ntombobom from the Eastern Cape; Lukhanyo Mdingi from Cape Town; and Celine.What new product does the world need right now? We need to look into designing new ways of educating future generations. I think what is being taught does not equip young people for what's coming.The curriculum probably hasn't evolved much since my mother was at school, and the world has shifted in many ways since then. People should be learning to lead themselves and not wait for people like the minister of international relations to be leading us ... kind of scary, I think.</img>Designer and artist, Nonkuleleko Mlangeni. Image: SuppliedDesigner and artist, Nonkuleleko Mlangeni. Image: SuppliedYour favourite places or spaces? For eating I go to Fordsburg; for dancing I like Trackside Creative in Soweto.What are you listening to? Zoe Mtoba Molelekwa, Lijadu Sisters, MF Doom, Earl Sweatshirts and John Wizards.What piece of art would you love to have? I would love one of Santu Mofokeng's photographs.Favourite movie set? Werner Herzog documentaries, Wes Anderson for art direction, and Koto Bolofo's 'The Land is White, the Seed is Black'.Favourite cities, and why? Joburg for inspiration, Berlin for parties and Dar Es Salaam for the calm and food.What are you excited about? I am excited about graduating in July, coming back to South Africa and hopefully staying in one place for more than six months. I am also planning an event for early 2017 in collaboration with some cool folk.