Sam Mensah is meeting us for lunch in Hyde Park. Little does he know that Sharon Becker, our fashion director, and I will propose marriage and quickly settle on our roles as his first and second wives.Mensah thought he was going to discuss his new Kisua for 8 collection for yoox.com - the brilliant e-shopping site of the Outnet. Instead, he is embroiled in the relationship dynamics that arise because we contemplated sharing the couples menu as a group of three. Hence, the sudden marriage.The Ghanaian entrepreneur seems to feel he has his hands full with his newly acquired wives. Who can blame him for steering the talk to safer territory. We have watched him grow his brand Kisua, which means "well dressed" in Swahili, over several years.He tells us that had he known what he was letting himself in for he might have reconsidered leaving investment banking for the much more tempestuous world of fashion. As it is, his parents thought he was having a midlife crisis and advised him to rather buy a motorbike. "It's not for sissies. I sold everything I had to put into my dream."The dream is to build a fashion brand that celebrates this continent. "On a continent of a billion people we don't have a brand that is known and respected; we have designers, designers, but no brands." We have opted for the tuna crudo and a starter to share. Mensah's lamb is getting cold as we fire questions. A word to the wise - if you want a hot lunch, dine with one wife at a time.What are his feelings now about the fashion industry? "I was very na ve. There are easier ways to make money but when people tell you how they wore your dress to make a speech at the WHO or on a date - that is what gets me out of bed in the morning."Mensah's concept is simple: he collaborates with designers across Africa and then puts the designs into production in factories in South Africa and elsewhere on the continent. "I go all over Africa and bring beautiful fabrics, silhouettes and techniques to the global market."How do you scale a fashion business? "Twenty percent is fashion, the rest is logistics and project management. That is where a lot of designers fall short - they need to find a business manager. Yes, a design may be beautiful but you need capital and operational capability." You also need a spot of magic - in the case of Kisua, it came in the form of Beyonc embracing the label."It is fascinating to see who is tracking African fashion and who is inspired by it - there are a lot of opportunities internationally and the Italians love Africa, but there is a reluctance to do business ... [because of] concerns with consistency and production."So it is a testament to his business skills that Yoox has come back for a second round. "The first collection did really well - the brand called 8 offers wardrobe classics, silhouettes that are timeless, and blends Italian style with African fabric, geometry, textures and mood. It sold really well in Italy, the US and China. The potential is global."