Did the autumn rain wake you up to the fact that you ve done nothing about planting something to colour your winter and spring garden?There s still time. In fact, many winter plants don t like being planted before the air and soil cool down.As always, preparing your soil is key to a good show. Add a decent helping of compost to your soil because by the end of summer it can be compacted and left with little water-holding organic material. Your results will only be as good as your soil.The nurseries are full of winter annual seedlings. Petunias are the most popular, but here are my five top choices to grow from seed, planted right where you want them to grow and flower. At under R20 a pack, they re as cheap as chips and as easy as anything to grow.You may prefer seed simply because you are broke and seedlings cost a lot, even for a few balcony pots. Or you may prefer them because you have a lot of space to cover and seed is more economical.A South African classic, they form masses of orange and yellow flowers. You can also get packs of white seed. They will survive a dry season, but do need full sun to flower in spring. 5 of the best indigenous bulbs for your spring gardenThis is a huge family of vygies, but the annual ones, bokbaaivygies, sold in seed packs are superb. They grow fairly flat on the ground, and come in a mix of purples, reds, pinks and white. Again, they will survive dry spells but must have full sun to open the flowers. These look like tiny snapdragons and most are brightly multicoloured. The English name, toadflax, is not used in SA, and the Afrikaans weeskindertjies (orphans) is far cuter. They grow about 30cm high, but as the seed is fine they can come up very densely. There are great if you like blue, but they also come in mauve, pink or white. They have an incredibly long flowering season and can also seed themselves. These plants come from Greece not Virginia, are fast growing and can be in bloom six weeks after sowing. The small four-petalled flowers come in a harmonious blend of pink, white, reddish and lavender shades, and they sprawl to cover a huge area. All of the above seeds can be scattered in your patio pots, on their own, or around more permanent plants, but remember to keep pots watered in the heat of spring. However cheap, winter flowers cost some money because you will have to water them to keep them alive. Water by hand in the late afternoon. Don t use a sprinkler. Dry autumn leaves covering your soil will prevent the seedlings from emerging after germinating. Clear them away so the seeds can get through. If you have a large area to cover, for example, a pavement garden, use mixed packs of spring annuals which will include all these and more.