The first day was always going to be a beast. We were taking on the second-longest day of the entire trip (well more than 400km) while driving on the wrong side of the road (for us), on bikes new to us, while navigating the traffic in Chicago, Illinois, with a healthy dose of jet lag. Add to that a rainy, 12-degree day and things were looking relatively challenging. But we dug deep into our utter lack of experience in biking road trips and it all turned out fine. A fairly long day, but with plenty of fun. We made it to our first planned overnight stop in Carlinville in one piece. Oozing confidence after successfully taming the beast on day one, we hit the road for a manageable 140 miles (225km) on day two. The sun was shining and the weather was sweet. We had that peaceful, easy feeling as we got stuck into our R66 playlists and took it gently on the riding front, heading out late and stopping after only 20 miles (32km) for an early lunch. We may have got carried away with the "taking it easy" approach as we found ourselves staring at a road marker at 5.30pm that told us we still had 55 miles (88km) to go to our overnight stop! Nonetheless, we made it and Connie welcomed us with open arms at the Wagon Wheel Motel in a quaint village called Cuba, Missouri. There's so much to see on this beautiful route that it's easy to be distracted by the stops and forget about the riding ... but we'll get there. So we've gone from being as nervous as long-tailed cats in a room full of rocking chairs two days ago to seasoned bikers (well, at least we think so). Today's ride across southern Missouri was special, despite being fairly long. Sunny and warm weather for most of the day across rolling hills, dense forests and vineyards. It was a scenic country ride on Pocahontas, away from the six- to eight-lane interstate that dominated the first two days. In the early part, the old R66 tracks the interstate for much of the way. There were many historic little towns along the way, including Rolla, Lebanon, Springfield, Carthage, Joplin and Galena (the inspiration for Radiator Springs from the movie Cars); also some boarded-up ghost towns. Exciting news: we've finally managed to master the unspoken bikers’ greeting code. Every time you pass another brave biker heading in the opposite direction, it seems to be etiquette to extend an arm in greeting. The first few times I did this, I used my accelerator arm – which is definitely uncool as you almost lurch to a stop. Waving is also frowned upon. So we've discovered through trial and error that the only acceptable greeting is to drop the clutch hand out to the left, below handle-bar height, while staring straight ahead and maintaining one's bad-ass biking demeanour. Never, ever look at your greetee! Another safe day on the road filled with many new learnings as we said farewell to Missouri and nipped across the state line into Kansas for our overnight stop. We clipped the northeastern corner of Kansas and were out of the state as quickly as we had arrived. Carefully nursing our severe “biker bums”, we headed southwest through the great state of Oklahoma under cool, overcast skies. As has become the norm, there were courteous drivers all round. The only connections I could make with Oklahoma before today were reading about Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber back in the 1990s, and, even further back, recalling that line from An Officer and a Gentleman: "Only two things come outta Oklahoma …  steers and queers. Which one are you, boy? I don't see no horns, so you must be a queer!" Well, times have changed as we saw only cornfields, and plenty of them. It was a rural ride with fewer towns than on previous days and the ride even included a pretty technical section of muddy, rutted gravel road. Riding through the farmlands took us past a farmer who had erected a large billboard (as you do over here) to thank the Lord for knitting his mother's womb. Putting aside the whole religious debate around whether there's a God and, if so, whether he or she would really get involved in such a mundane task as knitting when there are so many more pressing issues requiring his or her attention, it came as a complete surprise to me that wombs were knitted. There were some nerves ahead of our overnight stop in Stroud as this was the one place where we couldn't get any confirmation of our reservation other than a very confusing phone conversation in early January with Bob, the owner. They don't even use email at the Skyliner Motel! And being the only place to stay in this one-street town, it would have been a problem if we had arrived to no reservation. Bob himself was at reception. He asked for our names, turned to a few dusty, yellow post-it notes stuck to the wall behind him, and retrieved our reservation. Interesting system, but it works. More Oklahoma farmlands today as the endless corn fields morphed into the herds of steers we had missed yesterday. And with the steers came the odour of steer poo wafting up our nostrils as we roared past. We crossed the 1000-mile (1600km) mark today, so we decided to celebrate with a kit upgrade. This took us on a small detour to Harley-Davidson World in Oklahoma City. I won't bore you with the details but we've added a lot more cool and comfortably shed the “Road Hogs” moniker for good. We're now genuine easy riders in the mould of Nicholson and Fonda. Riding Route 66 is about exploring small-town and rural America. It's not one winding road that stretches across the continent, as one might imagine. It's pretty easy to get lost and the route has numerous dead ends. The Illinois and Missouri sections of the route are well sign-posted but Oklahoma not so much. Maps are a frustrating waste of time on bikes. You need to get into the zone, bear in mind that you are generally heading west and southish, and rely on the force within for directions. Of course it's always wise to occasionally double-check the accuracy of the force with Google Maps. It's worked for us so far. I see in the news that Oklahoma is trying to impeach President Barack Obama over his suggestion Oklahoma allow transgender kids to choose which toilet they prefer to use. So I've changed my mind about the people of the great state of Oklahoma. They may be courteous drivers but they've elected political representatives who are clearly overly conservative nobs. Good thing we head into Texas tomorrow – no such thing as an overly conservative nob there, right? Let's wait and see what the Lone Star State has in store. Severe thunderstorms were forecast for most of our route today, so we hightailed it out of Clinton fairly early to try to avoid the lightning, which was expected to start at about 10am. The going was tough and sluggish, not least because of the extra weight we were carrying thanks to the size of the pizzas they served us in Clinton last night. Fortunately we managed to avoid the worst of the weather and only had to deal with some gusty winds, plenty of mist and a dash of rain here and there with the sound of thunder in the distance (all very easy for us hardcore bikers). I will say, though, that those big-ass Oklahoma rain drops feel like hail when they hit your face at 65 miles an hour. We passed through tiny towns called Shamrock and McLean, hoping for a coffee, but they were deserted with all businesses closed. Then we realised it was Sunday, which they clearly take seriously in these parts as a day of rest and religious reflection. Arriving at our overnight stop, the Big Texan in Amarillo, we were greeted by a lot of cowboy kitsch. This is undoubtedly the Disneyland of Texas, with dressed-up staff, amusement-park stalls, a western-themed motel and a 72-ounce (2kg) steak-meal-eating competition – with Disneyland-style pricing. I say “steak meal” because aside from the steak, competitors have to eat a salad, a baked potato, a shrimp starter and bread rolls, all within an hour, to claim their prize – the monster meal for free. The most astounding thing about all of this, beside the shoot-the-lights out level of kitsch at the Big Texan, is that there is a world record for speed-eating this steak meal. It is held by a young, skinny mother named Molly Schuyler. Little Molly flattened that enormous meal in four minutes, 18 seconds. Not being entirely satisfied, she then polished off another TWO full steak meals directly after that. Her time for all three was just under 20 minutes. Don't believe me? Google her and watch it on YouTube. Warning: it's not pretty! An early start today in an effort to ditch the kitsch as quickly as possible. Someone's also cranking up the heat as we head further west so it's good to get in a few hours’ riding before it gets too hot. We stopped after a 50-mile (80km) ride this morning in a tiny spot called Adrian, boasting a population of 166 souls. Besides being proud supporters of the Matadors (go the Matadors!), Adrian marks the halfway point of Route 66. We celebrated this milestone with breakfast at the MidPoint Cafe, an awesome spot and a classic American diner from a bygone era – with some interesting customers. We bumped into a guy from Missouri who was cycling the R66, spreading the Good Word and handing out Bibles along the way. We must have looked like real sinners as he encouraged us to take four. We haggled him down to one in the end. We also came across a couple in a bright yellow Kombi travelling from Argentina to Alaska. Given our ropey Spanish, that conversation was as limited as the one with the cyclist. Next stop was Tucumcari, another classic R66 town, for a coffee break at the Kix on 66 Diner, which incidentally has a genuine coffee machine and grinder. Make a note if you ever do this trip – it's a rare sighting in these parts! We arrived in Santa Rosa, New Mexico (just down the drag from Fort Sumner where Billy the Kid was killed by Pat Garrett) early enough to enjoy a swim in a local tourist attraction, the Blue Hole. It’s a natural artesian well that's one of the most popular scuba-diving destinations in the US – and, legend has it, where Billy the Kid would take a dip back in the day. With its crystal-clear, freezing water, it was worth a visit to cool down after the heat of the road. Brett impressed us all (and most of the other tourists) with a 20-foot rock dive into the pool. Our earliest start this morning for our longest ride. We’re on the bikes at 5.30am to beat the heat and the gusty winds that come up in the afternoon. We galloped out of Santa Rosa heading for Gallup 257 miles (413km) away with a chill in the air, the rising sun at our backs and Guns N’ Roses on the playlist. All seemed right with the world – until the morning chill took on a whole new level of freezing after 30 miles (48km) or so of riding. Eventually we had to pull over to try to warm our numb, gloved hands on the bike engines before pushing ahead. After 80 miles (128km) of hammering it down the interstate we stopped in Moriarty for a much-needed coffee, only moments away, I'm pretty certain, from frostbite setting in. Route 66 then goes right through downtown Albuquerque for about 15 miles (24km). It's an awesome stretch of road with many classic R66 neon signs for the countless diners and motels on the Albuquerque route. It also includes the bridge over the Rio Grande where we stopped for a mandatory photo. We ducked out of Albuquerque just before the Trump supporters and protesters turned the city centre into a no-go area. So many things to consider when planning our rides, including the whereabouts of crazed presidential candidates and their fans and haters. We didn't completely avoid the gusty winds, unfortunately, and our last hour into Gallup was really gusty, so much so that I was relieved to be riding a girl as large as Pocahontas (400kg) and that I had been going a bit overboard on the nachos and bacon-and-cheese burgers over the past week. Gallup is a cool little town surrounded by desert where many of the old classic westerns were made. We're staying at the El Rancho Hotel, a real landmark where all the Hollywood stars including John Wayne, Doris Day and Katharine Hepburn stayed back in the day while filming. I'm in the Ronald Reagan suite, lying on the bed where many years ago I'm sure Ronnie lay, allBrylcreemed up after a hard day on set and contemplating switching careers from acting to politics and, perhaps, making an eventual run for the presidency. I'm just contemplating tomorrow's impending heat and gusty winds. Gallup, New Mexico, to Holbrook, Arizona: 129 miles (207km) A late rise and a lazy breakfast at the El Rancho this morning. I had the “Western Omelette”, which does not have diced cowboys and Indians in it. We followed breakfast with a short, relaxing ride across the border into tiny Holbrook, Arizona. We're deep into the desert now and the landscape is spectacular. On the way into Holbrook we stopped at the Petrified Forest National Park, famous for its large deposits of petrified wood. No, that's not wood that's scared shitless; it's fossilised wood. The term “petrified forest” is a bit misleading. We were expecting to see standing forests of trees that had turned to stone, but no such luck. The petrified wood is scattered on the ground or under the earth. What you see is a desert landscape – beautiful, but not a forest. The national park includes a portion of Arizona's Painted Desert, which stretches over 20,000 square kilometres and is known for its special array of colours, including a range of blues and reds. It’s hard to capture how beautiful it is with a camera but we gave it a good go. We're staying in those classic Holbrook wigwams tonight. They have been featured in numerous Hollywood movies. Nine spectacular days of riding done and only three days left (including a side-trip to the Grand Canyon tomorrow). As Brett says, we can smell the stables. Probably the pick of the tour today – 265 miles (426km) of awesome riding that seemed quick and easy. We had a detour to the Grand Canyon planned and wanted an early start, but the desert air in Holbrook was a bit too cool at 5.30am (six degrees) so we waited until 7am and a more acceptable 10 degrees. First stop was Winslow to stand on the corner like the Eagles did: "Well I'm a standin' on a corner in Winslow, Arizona Such a fine sight to see It's a girl, my Lord, in a flat-bed Ford Slowin' down to take a look at me" It's a great attraction that's well worth the stop, complete with a flat-bed Ford and the Eagles’ music playing in the background. After a quick breakfast we hammered down the interstate to Flagstaff, which has an awesome section of the old R66 running through town. From there we diverted off the mother road up the 180 to visit the Grand Canyon. This was a spectacular stretch of road winding through thick pine forests around Flagstaff up to an elevation of 8,050 feet. Cold but beautiful, with snow on the peaks above us. Seligman tonight and hopefully a barber trim tomorrow morning by the town's 90-year-old mayor, called Angel. If we survive that, we'll give an update tomorrow. And then it's tats all round in LA on Saturday, I guess. Another "super A grade" day on the bikes. Based on the last two days, Route 66 has been saving the best for last. The stretch from Seligman to Needles today is the longest uninterrupted stretch of R66. We loved every minute of the warm desert weather and being far from the interstate. Our ride took us through Peach Springs, Hackberry and Kingman and then up into the Black Mountains on a narrow and winding mountain pass to Oatman, an old gold-mining town left completely deserted after the end of the gold boom. It looks like a town out of a western movie. We then rode down into the Mohave Valley and battled the desert heat before crossing the mighty Colorado River into California and made a beeline for the Best Western pool. Please remember that there is strictly no diving. We didn't, unfortunately. All that’s left is the run into LA tomorrow and the perfect road trip is complete. Greetings from Santa Monica, the official end of R66 and 2,500 miles (4,023km) and 12 days later. Our last day on the road and another goodie. After yet another shitty night’s sleep due to the sound of trains outside our rooms we roared out of Needles at 5am to avoid the desert heat. It was 23 degrees at 5am and just light enough to see the barren but spectacular landscape. Pretty much an empty road except for us and the many mile-long freight trains that snake their way across the desert. A quick breakfast stop in Barstow and then straight into LA. Having spent some time on the LA highways, today we unfortunately can't lump the California drivers with those in the rest of the states we've been through. Everyone here seems to have a death wish. We were lucky to reach the Eagle Rider drop-off in one piece. Once the bike admin was taken care of, we headed straight for the American Electric Tattoo Company on Sunset Boulevard for some celebratory ink (and tequila of course!). Our 12-day adventure has taken us across a stunningly beautiful country, from the quaint, well-preserved R66 towns of Illinois to the dense forests of Missouri, the lush farmlands of Oklahoma and Kansas, the wide, open plains of Texas, and the multitude of desert landscapes and big skies of New Mexico, Arizona and California. Everywhere we've been, Americans have been friendly, helpful and polite (excluding the LA road users, of course). Besides the natural beauty, friendly people and great customer service, the one thing that struck me is that apart from not being able to find edible food in most places, everything else just works and is "real simple", as they say over here, even in the smallest half-shuttered towns. This has been a refreshing change coming from an environment where we face so many regular obstacles. Riding R66 has been an unforgettable adventure for all four of us. I would recommend it enthusiastically. I am living proof that an idiot who never really rides a bike can fly across the world and then ride across a continent with zero preparation. Despite many people telling me I was completely insane to try to do something like this – presumably as I wasn't a real biker – this is probably the sanest thing I have done in years, other than the quality holiday time I get to spend with my wonderful wife and kids. Been there, done that, got the tat.