And never, perhaps, so crucial.Lesotho had three impressive wins to top Group B and reach this quarterfinal. Their confidence was up.They were relishing a go at South Africa's shadow Olympic team.Bafana Bafana comprised most of the Olympic squad bound for Rio 2016 in six weeks, minus some key players, and trying out a few others. They battled initially on the artificial surface as Jane Thaba-Ntso's delicious chip of Reyaad Pieterse in the 18th-minute gave Lesotho the lead. Muhsin Ertugral appointed as the Bucs new managerGift Motupa's strong headed goal in the 65th minute put South Africa back in the game in a much-improved second half but Bafana, led by joint-coaches Shakes Mashaba and Owen da Gama, could not score again.Pieterse got down to two excellent low saves for a tall goalkeeper after the match went straight to a penalty shootout, with no extra time.Several factors seemed to combine to make Bafana so lethargic in the first half; they looked like they were playing having just got out of bed.The players last kicked a ball seriously three weeks ago, at the end of the Premier Soccer League season.There were new faces in the team in Judas Moseamedi up front, Theminkosi Lorch at leftwing and Thembela Sikhakhane at rightback.Abbubaker Mobara was used in defensive midfield before a switch after the break to rightback. His preferred position is centreback.But then again, if there is a time for experimentation it is certainly now, and not in Rio. That was part of the purpose of sending South Africa's Under-23s to Windhoek, Namibia.Some questions will have been answered yesterday, and more should as this team now progresses to the semifinals, where better quality teams await. Not that Lesotho were any pushovers.Bafana started brightly, especially with some promisingly smart attacks going forward.Rivaldo Coetzee headed over, Maphosa Modiba shot wide and Motupa's strong run ended with a shot at Lesotho goalkeeper Daniel Jousse, all inside the opening 10 minutes.In the 17th minute Moseamedi played to the run of Sikhakhane into the box but he scuffed his shot.Lesotho's goal came against the run of play but the space that Thaba-Ntso was able to get into on the left of Bafana's area was a sign of things to come. The 20-year-old winger chipped over Pieterse, an over-23 player, that had the neutral crowd on its feet. Highlands Park rewrite history Coetzee's shot into the side netting was Bafana's last chance of the half.As the defence went to tatters under whatever Lesotho's nimble runners threw at it, so did Bafana's earlier snappiness in attack become replaced by sloppy passes, too many touches and poor combinations.The Bafana bench changed things around in attack, introducing the diminutive Menzi Masuku for Moseamedi. They brought on Deolin Mekoa for Sikhakhane, who went to central midfield, as Mobara moved to rightback.The changes brought a better structure to the South Africans.They at first struggled to step up the tempo but a good run and excellent cross by Bidvest Wits' promising leftback Tebogo Moerane set up Motupa's header to equalise.Coetzee's first spot-kick was saved by Jousse, putting South Africa under pressure in the shootout. Mobara, Masuku, Modiba and Mekoa then buried theirs.Jeremea Kamela and Hlompo Kalale scored for Lesotho. Basia Makepe and Tumelo Khutlang's efforts were stopped by Pieterse.SCORESSA won 4-2 on penalties