When and why did you start Douglas &amp; Douglas?I was frustrated in my job as an interior designer and was missing out on precious time with my baby, so I decided to take the leap and go on my own. So I launched ilovebokkie, a range of kids lovelies, furniture and d cor in 2011.Soon after, I branched out into residential interior design, and launched Sketch bok/dbn, part of which involved developing a furniture collection with my husband's company, Steel inc. Eventually, we merged the two brands and Douglas &amp; Douglas was born. Meet the ceramist who can't live without his sketchbookCan you describe your brand in three words?Authentic, distinctive and charismatic.What inspires you?Conversations, books, magazines, creative people, cultural diversity, nature and everyday life.How did you start designing furniture and interiors?I was always rearranging my bedroom furniture as a child, which drove my mom crazy. It's my passion.What do you enjoy doing when you're not designing?Swimming in the sea with my boys, especially in the early morning or late afternoon.Who or what influences your design style?This is a difficult question to answer. I often wonder what style is - it's hard to categorise as it's so diverse. I love African culture and plants. Colour influences me and feeds my soul. I love authentic creative spaces when it comes to interior design and hopefully I also create them. I draw inspiration from designers Patricia Urquiola and Patrizia Moroso.What is your favourite creation?I love the ellie drawing table I designed for kids when I launched ilovebokkie, especially since I've seen the hours of creative fun it's given my own children.</img>Wendy-Lee Douglas's interiors and furniture pieces are often bespoke and always beautiful. Image: Supplied Wendy-Lee Douglas's interiors and furniture pieces are often bespoke and always beautiful. Image: Supplied Your favourite material to work with?This changes all the time, but I'm loving the magical contrast of terracotta and copper.What makes your work different from that of other designers? I would like to think my work is authentic, above all else. I would hate to be put into a category as a "cookie-cutter" designer. I take pride in creating interiors and furniture pieces that are bespoke. And when it comes to interiors, I aim to create spaces that have soul.www.douglasanddouglas.co.za