Muhsin Ertugral is the fourth Pirates coach in four years. This situation begs a question: can Eric Tinkler's successor succeed where Vladimir Vermezovic and Roger de Sa failed by delivering league success last savoured under interim coach Augusto "Njenje" Palacios?More crucially, can the new coach couch a foundation that will shake Pirates out of the silver-medal slumber now synonymous with the side? Will Ertugral cure the schizophrenia? The Sea Robbers cruise in interclub African adventures but collapse on the domestic front. Bucs can be bipolar.When the spirit moves them, they deliver sensational stuff, as witnessed when they made Chiefs walk the plank and when, with 10 men, they eliminated an in-form Mamelodi Sundowns in extra time en route to the Nedbank Cup final.They can drag themselves from the jaws of defeat and register a famous come-from-behind victory like they did against Al-Ahly in Egypt.In equal measure, they are also capable of dishing up dollops of disappointment, like cowering to the selfsame Sundowns who brushed them aside without working up a sweat.These are the ills Ertugral inherits. With limited resources he led Mpumalanga Black Aces to finish fourth, three places above Pirates.Silverware specialistHis appointment was neither widely celebrated nor wildly rejected among The Ghost.Some have excitedly embraced Ertugral's entrance while others have observed that Bucs are developing an unhealthy obsession with what they consider Kaizer Chiefs trash. Ertugral is the second former coach of Chiefs after Vermezovic to take over Pirates.The German-Turk will want to stay the full three-year term of his contract unlike, "VV", who lasted no longer than 10 months.Ertugral stacked loads of silverware in the Chiefs cabinet in his first tenure, but the most coveted, the league title, eluded him. Union of passion and ambitionDriven by their boss Irvin Khoza, Pirates place a premium on continental competition. What will count in his favour is that Ertugral is the only coach in the PSL with a (Caf) winners medal While hiring Vermezovic was a marriage of convenience - Khoza wanted a disciplinarian and Vermezovic needed a job - employing Ertugral is a union of two parties powered by similar continental passion and ambition.What will count in his favour is that Ertugral is the only coach in the PSL with a Confederation of African Football (Caf) winners medal.He won the now-defunct Mandela Cup (Cup Winners Cup) with Chiefs during Operation Vat Alles (take all), a term coined by former Chiefs mouthpiece Putco Mafani when Amakhosi amassed every trophy but the league.The attraction of joining ranks with a continental player that reached the 2013 Caf Champions League and the Confederation Cup last year was a big factor in swaying Ertugral.An embarrassment of riches will greet Ertugral when he starts his new job on July 1. He loves his teams to play at full speed, something Pirates have in abundance. That pace can also be to their detriment as more often than not, they sail forward in unison with gay abandon, leaving gaping holes at the back.Lay of the land: RearguardDeciding not to go for Reyaad Pieterse, who was on the market until he signed for SuperSport United from Chiefs, reflects a belief that in Brighton Mhlongo, 25, Felipe Ovono, 22, and Siyabonga Mpontshane, 30, the Sea Robbers are satisfied with their shot-stoppers.The rearguard was rickety owing to injuries to Roy Mahamutsa, 34, and Happy Jele, 29. Siyabonga Sangweni's retirement and 25-year-old Tshepo Gumede's lack of game time created a central defence crisis of sorts. But converting tough as nails central midfielder Edwin Gyimah, 25, worked like a charm. The Ghanaian slotted in the space with ease alongside Ayanda Gcaba, 30. So solid was their pairing Pirates went seven games unbeaten.Lay of the land: MidfieldThe expected arrival of Bernard Morrison, the 35-year-old AC Leopards midfielder from Ghana, will enhance competition. Ertugral's entrance spells exciting times for youngsters as he has a penchant for working with young talent. Menzi Masuku, 23, will hope Ertugral does with him what he did with Jabu (Pule) Mahlangu - an effective, efficient, effervescent player.Or more recently guiding 20-year-old Aces academy graduate Aubrey Maphosa Modiba so well he won PSL young player of the year last month.With Ertugral around, hope springs eternal for the young Bucs brigade in the reserve league to break into the first team.Under Ertugral the dribbling of the likes of Sifiso Myeni and Thabo Qalinge will be endorsed. But silly stunts such as Thabo Rakhale trying a trick deep in his own half and losing possession, which led to SuperSport scoring in the Nedbank Cup final, will not be tolerated.Lay of the land: FirepowerThe exit of Kermit Erasmus didn't crack a chink in the Bucs armour. His departure to French outfit Rennes gave exposure to the until then under-utilised Tendai Ndoro.The hope will be for Ertugral to get Thamsanqa Gabuza to score more than he misses. There will also be an expectation for Ertugral to breath life into Lehlohonolo Majoro, 29, like he reignited the fire in Collins Mbesuma, 33, who won the Lesley Manyathela top goalscorer award last season.Will he bring with him Mbesuma?bbk@sundaytimes.co.za