THE LOOK: A fusion of colours and local cultures, Raphael Mukendi is founded on a desire to create individual pieces, each with a story behind them, made with the finest fabrics and the detailed precision that custom-made tailored suits deserve. Whether you have a special design in mind, one you d like reproduced or a new-wave suit that s yet to see the light of day, Raphael Mukendi specialises in manifesting ideas, be they red-carpet tuxedos or classic three-piece and two-piece suits.THE COST: From R5,000 for men and R4,500 for women, with a range of almost 1,000 fabric samples from which to choose. Prices include consultation, measuring, fitting and alterations.Visit: raphaelm.co.za THE LOOK: Rahim Rawjee is the man behind hugely dapper, made-to-measure Row-G menswear, offering a selection of made-to-measure options and a plethora of cloth sourced from the finest mills in the world, to suit your personal predilections, tastes and desires.THE COST: R2,800-R6,000 for shirts and R15,000-R60,000 for suitsVisit: row-g.com</img>Row-G. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) Row-G. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) Tailored tales from a suit maestroTHE LOOK: Frank Bespoke is the place to go for the perfectly tailored suit.According to master tailor Grant van den Berg, the man behind the brand, the creation of the perfect suit needs you to choose your cloth wisely, based on taste, tendencies, peculiarities and penchants and, most importantly, form. Next, select the style that suits you best, with measurements taken for the perfect fit. Once your cloth is in the safe hands of a master tailor, it s time for pattern-making. Then, when your suit is as good as ready, the master tailor invites you for a fitting, going over the finer details and accessories for supplementary swagger.THE COST: R1,250-R1,850 for shirts, R500-R50,000 for suits.Visit: frankbespoke.co.za</img>Raphael Mukendi. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) Raphael Mukendi. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) THE LOOK: Shaldon Kopman s bespoke, finely tailored garments take eccentricity and creativity seriously, while leaving ample room for a playful, unique interpretation. Naked Ape bestsellers include the Swazi wrapper a multifunctional shawl and personalised concept blazers.THE COST: Personalised concept blazer priced from R9 995-R35000, and timeless leather shoes from R2 850-R4 500.Visit: nakedapestyle.co.za</img>Frank Bespoke. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) Frank Bespoke. Image: Ross Garrett (Lampost) Production: Sharon Becker. Photography: Ross Garrett, Lampost. Grooming: Saadique Ryklief. Contributing fashion editor: Sheena Bagshawe. Fashion assistant: Khomotso Moloto. Fashion intern: Ranaa Patel. Lighting: Glow