'We've been together longer than we've been apart," says Lizette Watts about her husband, Andrew. "We started dating when we were 17 years old, and now we have a five-year old daughter, Emma."On entering their family home in Parkhurst, Johannesburg, it is clear the house was carefully conceived with their family in mind. The couple bought the property in January 2012, and lived in it for three years before they started their renovations. "This helped us to see what our lifestyle required, and it shaped the design substantially," says Lizette.A home with heart and art: Guiyani Monteiro invites us in The search for the right place was a long one, as many Parkhurst homes are already renovated and the couple wanted a clean slate to start with. "I loved that the house was in its original state, complete with wooden floors and pressed ceilings," says Lizette. "It meant that we could really put our stamp on it."Everything is small in Parkhurst houses," she explains. "We wanted to create an open-plan home, not simply because modern living dictates it, but so we could see Emma at all times." With this in mind, they put two steel beams in place to reinforce the structure, and opened up the entire living space. "Now, from the kitchen we can see into Emma's bedroom and into the garden when she's playing outside. The new layout works around our lifestyle."</img>The main bedroom features a slatted Spati bed from Weylandts, weylandts.co.za, and a Beni Ourain carpet from Morocco, sourced by shouf.co.uk. The chest of drawers is a hand-me-down from Lizette s mother Image: Graeme Wyllie The main bedroom features a slatted Spati bed from Weylandts, weylandts.co.za, and a Beni Ourain carpet from Morocco, sourced by shouf.co.uk. The chest of drawers is a hand-me-down from Lizette s mother Image: Graeme WyllieBefore the renovations, the couple noticed they were often confined to the dining room, and they consciously designed the house to allow better flow. With the changes, they now use every inch of the house. The most important change was placing the kitchen in the centre of the home.</img>The floor tiles, basin and bath are from Italtile, italtile.co.za; the wall tiles are from Union Tiles, uniontiles.co.za, and the round mirror is from Linden Glassworks, lindenglassworks.co.za. Image: Graeme Wyllie The floor tiles, basin and bath are from Italtile, italtile.co.za; the wall tiles are from Union Tiles, uniontiles.co.za, and the round mirror is from Linden Glassworks, lindenglassworks.co.za. Image: Graeme Wyllie"Cooking time is our family time," says Lizette, confessing that while they may not be fabulous cooks, they're definitely passionate about it. "Now even if some of us are in the living room, we're all together while we prepare dinner," she says, adding that Emma usually jumps up on the kitchen island during prep time. "She loves it up there. If she could bath in the sink she would."When it came to furniture, the couple filled the home with their existing pieces and hand-me-downs. "I don't like how quickly people replace everything these days," says Lizette. "Most of our furniture is from our wedding, 12 years ago, or from second-hand stores."</img>Mediterranean handcrafted tiles from Union Tiles, uniontiles.co.za, make for statement flooring in the dining room. The dining room table was custom made 10 years ago by Die Ossewa Antiques in Melville, ossewaantiques.co.za; and Andrew Watts made the bookshelf Image: Graeme Wyllie Mediterranean handcrafted tiles from Union Tiles, uniontiles.co.za, make for statement flooring in the dining room. The dining room table was custom made 10 years ago by Die Ossewa Antiques in Melville, ossewaantiques.co.za; and Andrew Watts made the bookshelf Image: Graeme WyllieAnd just like their furniture is here to stay, so the Watts have no plans to leave. "When we bought this house, a real sense of belonging came with it." This informed the design at every stage. "It was a very considered renovation - a lot of thought went into making it long-term." Joburg is one of Lizette's favourite cities in the world and she considers it a privilege to live here. "This is our forever home."nomadsandco.co.za