What is the most fun NIKEiD execution you've worked on?Nike Air Max Day earlier this year was amazing. We had some crazy activations across Europe. In London, we had customised, chauffeur-driven BMW i8s collecting consumers who signed up for a free one-on-one design session at the SNKRS CUBE in our flagship studio at NikeTown London.You have a customised number on the back of your Air Max 90 Lunar Hyperfuse. What is that about?I grew up in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal, and this is the postal code for my neighbourhood. It's actually a really special place, with many people I grew up with having gone on to super interesting careers in art, design and music so it's really something I am proud of. Hot innovations from NikeYou moved from Cape Town to London and then Amsterdam to run NIKEiD - how did that happen?I started Baseline as the first independent skateboard store in South Africa back in 1998. It was a 12-year journey that shaped my life for sure.I sold it in 2011 with the idea of taking a little time off to relax and travel Africa, but I never got around to it as I was given a great opportunity by Nike Europe to head up the worldwide flagship NIKEiD studio in London, which I jumped at, and after a year I was fortunate to create a really successful business model of a premium customised footwear service.I was then offered to replicate this across all Nike stores in Europe while based at Nike's European head office in the Netherlands, and that's kept me extremely busy over the past few years. With the launch of NIKEiD in South Africa, I was super excited to assist with a successful launch in a country that will always be home for me.What is the best part of working and living in Amsterdam?It's a massive clich but cycling is the best part. Just being in Joburg for a few days reminded me how much everyone drives here! Over in Amsterdam, I only have my bicycle and I am totally happy with that. There is something really cool about how well set up, and most importantly, how flat the city is, which makes cycling an absolute pleasure and everyday part of life.