Describe your brand in three words.Fresh, uncontrived, modern (Christa). Modern, artisanal, eclectic (Carla).What is your favourite product, and why.I love all our products, but the restored pieces are my favourite because they have a story; they have seen things (Christa). I like the recently launched Moller sideboard. It's made from perforated metal and should be stark and masculine, but somehow it becomes fluid and delicate and feminine as an end product (Carla).How is your product different from other brands?I think it's our approach. We're not formally trained designers; we both studied Fine Art (Christa).How do you design and make each piece?We sometimes forget that we actually need to sell the things we doodle! It's a lot of talking, coffee, drawing and imagining ways to make original objects (Carla).What's the story behind the name?We wanted to create a family name; one that is our own. So we combined my last name, Botha, with Carla's middle name, Frederika (Christa).Which designers inspire you?Locally, Anatomy and Tonic. Internationally, Arent &amp; Pyke, Dimore Studio and Fiona Lynch (Christa). I draw inspiration from artists and their use of colour, lines and shapes (Carla). Meet the Joburg designer who's making houseplants sexier than everWhat new product does the world need now?We started our business restoring furniture because we kept seeing beautifully handcrafted pieces being neglected. Even though we're designing our own range now, we will always keep that part of our business (Christa). More handmade and collaborative items (Carla).How are the materials you use significant?We try our best to create and design products that will last by using good-quality materials (Christa).Trends you love?Buying local (Christa). Brave use of colour (Carla).Trends you hate?Buildings in the wrong shade of grey (Christa). Mass-produced canvas art (Carla). A good design tip you can offer our readers?Invest in furniture pieces and art over time; you don't have to fill your house from the get go. When a piece is created with intention and care, it is so much more than just decoration (Christa).Why is buying local furniture so important?It means creating and keeping local jobs (Christa).Good design is...Timeless (Christa) and innovative (Carla).Visit Bofred's website at www.bofred.co.za