As with any gardening, your results depend on how well you prepare the soil so start by digging in a good organic compost.It you just want to plant a few things, go to your local garden centre or nursery and buy seasonal seedlings. Available now are cabbages, broccoli, cauliflower and Brussels sprouts all things you don t need a whole pack of seeds for, unless you have a huge garden.If you want to grow veggies from seed, these five types can still be planted for winter but do get sowing soon. You need a lot of space to grow enough garden peas the ones you shell and eat to make a worthwhile serving, so for small spaces, even pots, go for the mange tout varieties. As the name implies, these can be eaten whole, pod and all, when young. You don t need that many plants to harvest a handful every few days to add to salads or a stir-fry.They are sold under the names Sugar snap, Snap or Snow peas. They are climbers so you need to prepare a frame or sticks for them to climb up. Gardening for beginners: 8 points to consider before you get growingSwiss chard is the one with thick white stems and is the most popular variety grown in SA. By regularly picking the outer leaves, you will keep the plant growing. But you can easily grow some more interesting varieties of spinach in a small garden. These include Viloflay and Lazio, also English spinach. Again you can harvest leaves, or the whole plant in which case you need more space. These are hard to find in the shops unless you buy dried fava beans, but they are delicious fresh, raw or cooked when young. They need full sun and must be staked or they will fall over. Pinch out the top growing tip when the bean pods start forming. If you can t find seed, try planting dry beans from a grocery store. How to grow fresh radishes These grow best in winter, and by harvesting the outer leaves of plants regularly you can really save on your grocery bill. Iceberg lettuces are harder to grow perfectly, so stick to the open type, for example, butter and oak-leaf. Most seed companies sell packs of mixed lettuce, and you can easily grow as much as you need in a few pots or troughs. Grow these two root crops more for fun than finances, as they tend to be cheap in stores most of the year. Growing carrots is a great way to get kids interested in eating them. Make sure there is no rough organic material or stones in the soil as this will with stop the roots forming properly. Grow shorter or round carrots to avoid this, such as Little Finger and Cape Market. 