Brookstone's team should not be taking responsibility for Jomo Cosmos's relegation. However, they are the rib from which Ezenkosi were created 33 years ago.As the unusually bright and warm East Rand sun went down on Wednesday evening, their football version of Lazarus was complete.Cosmos will have to endure another season in the National First Division (NFD) while the team their owner bought out in February 1983 makes a storied return to the elite of South African football. The oldest players, Stanley Kgatla and Jermaine Christian, were infants when Highlands Park last campaigned in the multiracial National Professional Soccer League.Mothobi Mvala, whose double in the 3-0 away win against Mbombela United late last month reignited the promotion fire, turned 23 on Tuesday.On Wednesday, Namibian Peter Shalulile, also 23, scored the brace that took the Lions of the North to the promised land. He battled to keep his words and emotions in check after their win against Mbombela."At the start of the season, we set ourselves a goal not to lose at home and that's what we've been striving towards," Shalulile said."There's been something special at this club that's been a secret that I won't talk about but I'm happy to be part of this club."There have been incarnations of Highlands Park, with the most notable one being HP Silver Stars, which Brookstone sold to the Royal Bafokeng nation in Rustenburg.That meant a fresh start with the Phoenix Club which he started in 1996. They gained promotion into the current ABC Motsepe League in 2007 and the NFD promotion came four years later. We've got another tremendous challenge that awaits us and we need to take care of that one "It's been a long journey that has lasted a good 21 years when it was still an amateur team and we've gone through the various stages with perseverance," Brookstone said."It's been a rewarding one with the fact that we've worked our way up through the various divisions without buying out other clubs but different clubs have different avenues of success."We needed to build one step at a time and that's what we've been doing. We've got another tremendous challenge that awaits us and we need to take care of that one. We need to be able to deal with the challenge that is the PSL."The club still retains the red strip but what used to be Lions of the North at the height of apartheid has changed with the times.While they still train at Balfour Park, near where they used to play, they play their home matches at the Makhulong Stadium. What used to be the main Balfour Park Stadium was demolished to make way for a mall in 1983, which still stands. ENTER ERTUGRALMakhulong has a football story of its own through Thembisa Classic and Benoni Premier United. Both clubs sold their statu s to KwaZulu-Natal clubs Maritzburg United and Thanda Royal Zulu respectively.Brookstone said fellow club director Sinki Mnisi's input in moving the club to the East Rand was crucial."When you go to the Makhulong Stadium and you see what was traditionally the white powerhouse club playing with black players in the township and being embraced by the black community like we are and filling the ground is very fulfilling. Sinki Mnisi's role in this cannot be understated in this regard," he said."We've lost a lot of the white followers in South African football to European football and that's a tragedy. If there's any football club that can help bridge cultural and racial gaps in football, it's us. We've had a small minority of white fans coming to Tembisa and they've been welcomed. That's very important because they're encouraging their friends to come." Having masterminded a successful cup-winning run with Platinum Stars, Freese had a home with Highlands Unlike Australian legspinner Shane Warne's description of coaches being the vehicles that transport the supporters to the stadium, Allan Freese is part of the club as self-adhesive is to envelopes. Having masterminded a successful cup-winning run with Platinum Stars that ended badly two seasons ago, Freese had a home with Highlands. It was where he learnt his coaching ways."I coached the old Highlands Park when the team was brought from Alex and being part of this team is very good and I'm really happy they have fought their way into the PSL. It wasn't easy and the players were at the heart of this campaign," he said.