I love workwear. I am randy for nitrile gloves, boiler suits, reflective jackets, orange bibs, neon two-toned jackets with silver stripes, boots like squatting toads, but the garment I most covet is a lime-green jacket with a transparent ID pocket and reflective parallel stripes.Today there is an argie bargie in Kloof Street. A man lies on the ground with a bruise burgeoning on his forehead. Another man is leaning against a wall nursing his head.The argument is over a piece of clothing, a lime vest with reflective stripes.This is Cape Town's most coveted garment. Dressed for power: She who wear the pantsIf you are the lucky owner of such a prize addition to your wardrobe, you can direct traffic at the drop of a hat, do a bit of freelance car guarding, boss people around, hang about on street corners forever, wander the city looking official and even have a quick nap on the pavement - plus get into a Mariah Carey concert free.There are a number of companies in South Africa that specialise in workwear - lush repositories of Dromex Superlite black micro-coated gloves, ear muffs, hard hats, branded reflective jackets, two-tone jackets, orange jackets with white stripes, kidney belts for operating vibrating machinery (something I could do with in my car), protective welding glasses that might be part of Tom Ford's latest collection.Where does this ubiquitous and sometimes even mysterious garment originate?G. Fox in Paarden Eiland is lit with lime-coloured vests and other mouth-watering items of clothing. On special at the moment is a must-have Eskimo two-tone freezer jacket that bristles with reflective bands.Marie Meyer, salesperson, knows all these garments intimately. She is a ferocious talker, running her mouth as if it is battery driven, allowing no opportunity for interruption or questions.An expert at workwear waffle, she personalises each item. "These are your Chelsea boots, very popular. These gloves with foam-padded palms are bestsellers in the world, in the world not just South Africa, pricey but if you're going to buy cheap it's going to cost."This is your PPE [personal protective equipment] section. How does a woman dress to get ahead?"All hot sellers, this is your Conti suit, in acid, triple stitch, YKK zips, press-stud pockets. Polly cotton. Zip jacket and trousers. Very popular. Body harness double lanyard with waist belt, very popular. This is your freezer suit. Double lined. Very popular."At last we come to South Africa's most desired piece of clothing."And this [do you hear the drum roll?] is the lime reflective vest. It's got an ID pocket, special feature, small or extra large. Orange or lime, take your pick. R229."So what to wear tonight? I thought my Eskimo two-toned freezer jacket (double lined) with a pair of nitrile foam coated gloves in red with elasticised knitted cuffs, topped with my favourite lime-green vest with reflective stripes.Can you see me now? I hope so. G. Fox, Paarden Eiland, are the nabobs of neon. 021-514-1400 Pienaar Bros, Paarden Eiland offer cheaper lines in outer and work wear. 021-511-2464 Glowgear is the Gucci of reflective clothing. Made locally, it is often of a higher standard than imported products. 021-886-6972