England, Ireland and Wales return home today after southern hemisphere tours.The Eddie Jones-inspired England team won a series Down Under, something that hadn't been achieved since Captain Cook.Ireland broke new ground with a maiden test win in South Africa, while Wales yielded only when the All Blacks threw their bench at them.Does it mean the dawn of a new order in world rugby?"The northern hemisphere is catching up, not all but certainly England," said former Springbok captain Jean de Villiers.De Villiers said he had considered England the sleeping giants."They will be one of the favourites to win the World Cup in 2019. They have a young group. If they can stay together they will develop into a really strong team," he said.Former Bok prop BJ Botha also believes England have a lot going for them. "I think the northern hemisphere is catching up. We can see that with England." England stay on top Down UnderAs the wealthiest rugby union, England spare no expense in preparing their teams."They have all the facilities at their disposal," said Botha. "They're showing what can be achieved if you have a good coach like Eddie. They've had the athletic ability but now they also have the benefit of good coaching."We shouldn't lose track of the fact that we're halfway through our Super Rugby season and at the start of our international season. They are coming to the end of their international season. They have been together for a long time," said Botha."Their structures work right through," said De Villiers. "It makes sense. The Premiership [England rugby's club league] I think is the toughest domestic competition."There is a salary cap. Your best team isn't 10 times stronger than the bottom. You don't play in a final like a Toulon or a Racing 92 because you have the most money."They get to spend more or less the same and then it is about your scouting and academies. They have promotion/relegation. After 10 rounds a lot of teams have nothing to play for."In Super Rugby once the break is over a lot of teams have nothing to play for. Until the last week in England there are teams trying to win the league, trying to get a place in the European [Champions] Cup, the European Challenge Cup or avoid relegation. It is very tough and that flows into their national team."