1) Mix it upInstead of opting for matching bed linen, create interest by combining colours and patterns and mixing up your sets. Don't skimp on your linen - pure cotton is a must; the softer and more luxurious the better. 2) Create atmosphereInstil an air of luxury by introducing a natural fragrance to your space. Choose a linen spray or an aroma diffuser, and spoil yourself with a calming and relaxing scent. Scented candle in glass, R129, hm.com 3) No tech ruleWe are often surrounded by technology, which adds to our stress levels and can become addictive. Lower geopathic stress levels by removing all tech gadgets from your bedroom. Being offline is a luxury, which is why the old-fashioned alarm clock is the new it item. Twin bell alarm clock R199.95, mrphome.com Stylish meets cute with this trendy kids' furniture 4) Block it outA good night's sleep is essential for optimal daily living and by creating the right conditions you've already won half the battle. So make sure your room is dark and free of any light that can disturb sleep. A block-out blind or shutters can make a big difference to your sleep patterns. 5) DeclutterWe tend to accumulate all kinds of things in our bedroom, forgetting that it's the one space that should be treated as a sanctuary of calm. Clear away clutter and reorganise your space regularly. Pay special attention to your night stand - it should only hold the essentials. The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying, R298, takealot.com 6) HumidifyIf you live on the Highveld, the winter air can be dry and as pollution increases, air quality deteriorates, especially in the cities. Investing in a good humidifier is worth every cent as it will improve your breathing and help with dry skin and eyes. Even your plants will thank you. 7) Low lightingMake sure your lighting is perfect with a soft, warm lamp that makes reading in bed comfortable. Don't strain your eyes with poor lighting. Antiqued brass lamp, R1,195, weylandts.com 8) Brighten up your morningsThe winter light can be quite dreary and the perfect antidote is to treat yourself regularly to fresh flowers. Or just pick something from your garden and put it in a vase. It doesn't have to be extravagant - just a little cheer-me-up. How to plan the ultimate bedroom for your child9) Quality is keyYou spend almost a third of your day in bed, which gives you the perfect excuse to invest in a comfortable mattress, good quality bedding (pillows, duvet) and breathable and luxurious cottons.Duvets from R625, pillows from R180, grannygoose.com 10) The return of the paperbackInstead of having a TV in your bedroom or reading on your kindle or ipad, why not buy a few good books instead? Second-hand bookshops have a great selection at a fraction of the price. Reading a book will stimulate your imagination and help you slow down after a long day.