When planning a garden, or renewing an old one, start with your accent plants. These are the shapes that punctuate the planting area, and around which you construct the rest of your garden.In winter, accent plants provide interesting focal points. In fact, if a garden is boring in winter it is usually because it has no evergreen accent plants. Without that structure visible in winter, a garden can be a pleasant mixture of colour and texture, but can also be a bit of a mush.It s the shape of a plant that makes it stand out as an accent, exclamation mark, explosion, full stop or ball. But as with any plant, check out its full-grown size an accent can become too dominating if it gets too big.Don t overdo accent plants or your garden will look decidedly odd abstract art crossed with a cemetery. It will also need plenty of softer fillers, shrubs and groundcovers.The best way to choose a form plant for your space is to wander around your local nursery and look for shapes. Gardeners in subtropical or warm areas such as Durban or the lowveld have a wider choice of spiky tropical shapes. Tree ferns and a vast range of palm trees are good choices for dramatic sculptural shapes.It s easy to make your own accent shapes. For example, a wigwam of climbing beans in a vegetable garden, or sweet peas in the flower garden. You can also use home-made wire structures, or buy them from garden shops, to create shapes with creepers such as star jasmine (Trachelospermum jasminoides) or small-leafed ivy.Cute wire dogs, cats or bokkies do not count as accent shapes! PLANTS TO USE FOR SHAPE/ACCENT Columns: Conifers such as Juniperus scopulorum Skyrocket and Cupressus macrocarpa Gold Crest . Cones or pyramids: Most conifers such as Cryptomeria japonica Kilmacurragh, bay trees and box plants (Buxus sempervirens) can be clipped into shape. Balls: Box plants and the dwarf form of Nandina domestica. Trunks: Tree trunks that are decorative while their leaves provide shade can work beautifully, but be careful these can often outgrow a small garden, leaving just the truck in sight!So, Brazilian leopard trees (Caesalpinia ferrea), Silver birches (Betula alba), Pride of India (Lagerstroemia speciosa) and Fever trees (Acacia xanthophloea), with their yellow-green bark, are best in larger gardens in warm areas. Note: these are increasingly being seen flourishing in Joburg.Fountains: sword-leafed plants and numerous grasses make dramatic sprays. New Zealand flax (Phormium tenax), very popular in the 1980s, is good for big gardens; green or purple cordylines eventually hold a burst of leaves high above the ground; while Dianella tasmanica, the flax lily, flowers closer to the ground. The slow-growing Strelitzia juncea, less common than Strelitzia reginae, forms a very dramatic clump of arrow-like leaves, perfect in modern gardens. 