The show is not only a platform for top design talent to come together and showcase their wares, but it also celebrates and acknowledges the local design industry with its annual awards.The 2016 award-winners were announced by 100% Design South Africa Programme Director, Cathy O Clery:Best Furniture Design TonicBest Lighting Design Hoi P loyBest Surface Design MonnBest Textile Design, awarded in memory of Julian Gelb - EvolutionBest Product Design Tutu 2.0 Lamp, featured on 100 Beautiful ThingsBest Stand Design Dokter and MissesBest of 100% Talent Thabisa Mjo of Mash T Design StudioIn addition to the above categories, 100% Design South Africa announced a South African Designer of the Year an annual award that seeks to recognise a designer who displays excellence in their field with regards to concept, quality and design.The 2016 Designer of the Year Award was announced by South African design star, Andile Dyalvane of Imiso Ceramics. Dyalvane has recently returned from his highly acclaimed, first international solo exhibition Camagu at New York s prestigious Friedman Benda Gallery. It is crucial to have awards that recognise people who are doing great things in the industry, says Andile. It is important to encourage innovation and reward those who are striving for it as well as inspire others to do so. Designers Katy Taplin and Adriaan Hugo from Dokter and Misses were named South African Designers of the Year 2016.Below are some of our favourite stands and projects from the 2016 show:1) 100% Colour in association with Plascon was a conceptual showcase that expressed the power of colour to create a specific mood, message or meaning in design. 2) Every year a well-regarded interior designer is commissioned to create the 100% Hotel feature exhibition, which showcases the latest trends in hotel design and products specifically designed for the hospitality industry. This year Tonic Design did a stellar job. 3) Cape Town-based design studio, Inhouse Brand Architects, brought together the latest workplace design trends and products that are transforming the way we work in 100% Office. The feature exhibition was a showcase of future-forward commercial office interior design, office furniture and workplaces trends. 4) 100 Beautiful Things, which was first launched in 2014, is one of the most popular feature exhibits at 100% Design South Africa. Every year curator Cathy O Clery scours the country for 100 beautiful objects that are designed and in production in South Africa and presents them in a beautifully curated space. 5) The Design Caf was stylishly curated by Jacket Interiors. 6) Dokter and Misses were named South African Designer of the Year 2016. 7) Lemon and Joe Paine created a beautiful lush stand complete with a free-standing vertical garden. 8) Generation Design presented their amazing De Padova and Seletti ranges. 9) The Seatworks stand was a visual feast. 10) Wolf &amp; Maiden s interactive stand saw personalisation of your leather purchases taking place on the spot. 