Indeed, after a World Cup, selection is fraught for coaches as it may lead them down paths from which they cannot backtrack.They did to a degree show their hand in the June internationals but they now have to be more sedulous in their selections.Getting it right in the backrow in particular will be paramount as it will largely dictate how the Springboks, the All Blacks, the Wallabies and Los Pumas set out their tactical stall. X marks the spot for new Bok hooker"If you get the balance of your loose trio right, you can dominate in the wider channels," observed Warren Whiteley, who started in the series decider against Ireland in June in Port Elizabeth."You can mix it up in the middle which makes it easier for your loosies to run around. That is what we've been working on for the last while," he said .The Lions' talisman is now assured of a starting place after Duane Vermeulen was ruled out with a knee injury while playing for Toulon. Francois Louw, Jaco Kriel, Sikhumbuzo Notshe and Oupa Mohoje will vie for the other backrow spots.The All Blacks are still trying to find a successor to Richie McCaw. Coach Steve Hansen has to weigh up the in-form Ardie Savea against incumbent Sam Cane, though the latter is recovering from concussion.Wallabies coach Michael Cheika has to decide whether to reunite David Pocock and Michael Hooper in his backrow. The "Pooper" combination, as it is known, has successfully operated in concert with the combative Scott Fardy but Cheika also has to consider the wider picture and in it features Sean McMahon and Lopeti Timani.The "Pooper" combo offers him turnover ball but shortens his line-out options."It is really about being able to play with both [formations]," Cheika told the Sydney Morning Herald.Apart from the backrow, tough decisions await Coetzee, Hansen, Cheika and Pumas coach Daniel Hourcade. Yes, they have the personnel, but establishing the pecking order is easier said than done With Willie le Roux unavailable, Johan Goosen is likely to step into the breach with Jesse Kriel as his deputy. Frans Malherbe is injured, which means Julian Redelinghuys could get a crack from the get-go.Assistant Bok coach Mzwandile Stick intimated changes will be kept to a minimum.Apart from McCaw, the All Blacks also have to adjust to life without Dan Carter, Ma'a Nonu and Conrad Smith who are ballooning their nest eggs in Europe, while Sonny Bill Williams and Nehe Milner-Skudder are out with long-term injuries. Whoever replaces them still needs experience. Rohan's time will come,says coach StickIt is in that dark, uncertain alley that Australia, and indeed the Springboks, can ambush the Kiwis who face their greatest selection challenge in more than a decade. Yes, they have the personnel, but establishing the pecking order is easier said than done.Does Aaron Cruden, for instance, get the nod ahead of inform Beauden Barrett? Does Israel Dagg get another stab with Ben Smith moving to wing, or is Waisake Naholo an immovable object? Does Julian Savea's most recent form outweigh his test dossier?The Wallabies operate off a thin base. But Cheika does have a formidable coaching staff that now includes long-time All Blacks skills coach Mick Byrne.Still recovering from the loss to England, Cheika has opted for France-based Matt Giteau, Adam Ashley-Cooper and Drew Mitchell.Hourcade will be disappointed that his players did not warm to Super Rugby in the way many anticipated."Super Rugby is long," reminded Whiteley. "It is week in and week out. For them it was the first time. There were a lot of unknowns and a lot of travelling. It's tough, but they will be fired up for this series."sports@timesmedia.co.za