Graeme Smith has two reasons to remember the day - as a Liverpool supporter and because he and AB de Villiers were responsible for that long-ago partnership.They shared 217 at Newlands on March 4 2005, the first of two glory days South Africa needed to beat Zimbabwe by an innings.No such drama electrified yesterday's play, but considering South Africa's form last season their supporters will be satisfied that they will resume today on 283/3. Avoiding another Durban debacleBut they will also be disquieted that Stephen Cook, Quinton de Kock and Hashim Amla failed to convert 50s into centuries.Another half-centurion, JP Duminy, will bat on having emerged from more than two years in a wilderness of 10 completed innings in which he did not reach 50.Cook and De Kock put on 133 for the first wicket, the latter opening the batting in a test for the first time since February 2014 at first-class level.De Kock was promoted in the wake of an ankle injury Dean Elgar somehow sustained while crossing the boundary after training on Friday. Or maybe De Kock promoted himself out of altruism."I said to 'Rus' [Domingo], 'If you want me to I'll do it'," De Kock said.Having drilled 15 fours in his 82, would he be up for the job again?"No. It was cool and I learnt a bit about myself, but I'll stay at No7, thanks."Pity, because for only the third time in 217 of South Africa's home tests their openers put on 100 before lunch on the first day, a milestone they reached having each survived chances put down by wicketkeeper BJ Watling.But they were dismissed seven overs apart. De Kock, not content with having ramped Wagner over the slips and through third man for four, pulled raggedly at the left-armer's next delivery and was caught on the fine leg fence. Cook fell to a catch in the gully, smartly snaffled low down by Kane Williamson.Amla and Duminy kept taking the fight to the visitors in a stand of 95 ended when the former edged a delivery from Wagner that swung towards leg and veered towards off after pitching. This time Watling held on. Amla just doesn't feel at homeIt was the first time in forever that South Africa looked like a team not in decline.A fine pitch, spiked with significant bounce, was one part of that equation. Another was Williamson's decision to field first, perhaps prompted by the feeling that a pitch 20 days in the making should not deteriorate unduly.The umpiring also favoured South Africa.Paul Reiffel turned down Trent Boult's early lbw appeal for Cook's wicket. New Zealand reviewed and replays showed Cook had edged an inswinger.Amla was given out lbw to Boult by Ian Gould only for the review to reveal the ball would have missed leg stump.Gould also rejected lbw appeals for the wickets of Cook and Duminy, both of which would have been out on replay evidence. The New Zealanders, mindful they had only one review left, declined to risk it both times.Duminy showed no such reticence when Gould gave him out lbw. And a good thing, too: the ball had pitched outside leg.Now Duminy, 33 runs short of a century, has the chance to make it count. Fully converted Kiwi with SA roots and a strange accent The name's Wagner, Neil Wagner. It's not "Vaagner", as someone from Pretoria, where Wagner was born and raised before moving to New Zealand in 2008, would say."Everyone in New Zealand calls me Wagner," he said. "My nickname's 'Wags'."I'm not really too fussed about anything like that but Wagner's my surname now."New Zealand had "played a big role in who I am today and what I've become as a cricketer". Stability key to holding swayListening to Wagner, there was no mistaking his allegiance to the land of the long, flat vowel. At least not to South African ears."I still can speak [Afrikaans] but I'm a fully converted Kiwi now. I don't know about the accent. If I come here I've got an accent. If I go to New Zealand I've got an accent. When I go to England, I get called an Australian. I never win."Wherever he goes, Wagner is a useful left-arm fast bowler, good enough to take 2/51 on the first day of the second test against South Africa at Centurion yesterday."I had a lot of goosebumps when I walked out," he said. "It's the first time in my life that I had my whole family and a lot of my friends that I grew up with sit next to a field and watch a test match."I remember sitting on that grass bank and watching Allan Donald and Shaun Pollock bowl and really feeling [the] love for this game."Like batsmen AB de Villiers and Faf du Plessis, Wagner attended Affies."You run into Faf and you want to have a laugh because there's a lot of memories from school in your head," he said."You try and put that out of your head and focus on the battle: you want to get him out. That's the main thing."The battle resumes today.sports@timesmedia.co.za