And carrying the honour and burden to do the No7 jersey proud in the coming months and years is the supremely talented Teboho "Oupa" Mohoje.The most revered custodians of the jersey have been selfless team men, highly skilled and athletic, brutally physical, excellent lineout specialists and most of all, super fit.Think of Juan Smith, Andre Venter and Theuns Stofberg and you have an idea of the type of player that meets the requirements the position demands.Mohoje's performance against Los Pumas in the first Rugby Championship test in Nelspruit last weekend may not have won him the man-of-the-match award, but it earned him the praise of his teammates.Internally, the Boks present their player of the match with a Springbok pelt. It was awarded to 26-year-old Mohoje on the back of his massive contribution.Even official man-of-the-match Faf de Klerk commented afterwards: "I don't know who they paid to give me the award," as he nodded to Mohoje sitting beside him.Mohoje's excellent outing, which included a game-high 13 tackles, was complimented by tireless running and carrying as he took the ball to the gainline repeatedly. It was a welcome sight to see a green and gold No7 dominate again.An interested spectator was former Bok head coach Heyneke Meyer. The national coach between 2012 and 2015, he gave Mohoje his first taste of Bok rugby when he played him seven times in 2014."I'm really proud of Oupa," Meyer told the Sunday Times. "I've always believed you need to pick athletes, especially in positions like blindside flank, and Oupa is a great athlete."With an athlete, rugby ability will come with experience. And of the players I have coached in my career - and there have been a lot - Oupa is one of the top players in terms of natural skill and athleticism."He is brilliant in the lineouts because he is so explosive. Victor Matfield was massively impressed with him when I first pulled him into the Bok squad in 2014. He contested at the front in our training drills and I remember Victor being stunned by how good he was."An example of Mohoje's lineout prowess is that despite only 555 minutes of Super Rugby in 2016, he ranked ninth in lineouts stolen."Oupa had only played three Super Rugby games when he was called into the Bok set-up." Meyer recalls. "He was so raw but had so much talent."Oupa always had the attributes but lacked confidence because he didn't have experience at the highest level. But now, two years later, I can see he has so much more confidence and that of course is positive for his rugby."When I looked at a potential test player I didn't take Super Rugby form as the only measurement. I looked for flaws in a player's make-up that would be exposed under the intense pressure of test Rugby. Oupa has none."He's strong and has a lot of speed, which is useful because the Boks are trying to play with bigger players in wide channels. He is excellent for that."The more he plays, and it looks like he will have a run in the team now, the better he will become. It's hard to say how good he could be."Also, if you look at the current Bok pack, with Duane Vermeulen out, we were lacking a big-ball carrier against Ireland. New Zealand have Jerome Kaino and now we have Oupa to do that job."Mohoje, who has captained the Free State Cheetahs in the Currie Cup and the Cheetahs in Super Rugby, is an obvious candidate to be a future Bok captain.sports@timesmedia.co.za