1) Choose fixtures that won't require you to break any tiles or walls. You can instantly upgrade your shower by replacing your existing shower head with the Hansgrohe Croma Select overhead shower. It's a completely indulgent choice as it can switch between two spray modes at the click of a button.2) Introduce plants to bring colour and life into your bathroom. Or bring nature in by opening your bathroom onto a view of the garden. Either way you'll be connecting with nature and bringing in tranquility.3) If you have a small bathroom, maximise space by installing a shower and bath combination, or a corner bath tub.4) Large mirrors give the illusion of space, so they are great in bathrooms.5) Choose mixers that have a timeless design. Try not to buy into trends for your fixtures, as they have a limited time-span. Chrome is a great choice - it never goes out of fashion.6) It is important to have enough room in your basin area to perform functions such as washing hands, brushing teeth or filling up a container. Bear this in mind when selecting the height of your basin mixer with your wash basin.7) Think of water usage when selecting bathroom mixers. Hansgrohe water-saving taps and showers require up to 60% less water than conventional products. Lower hot water consumption means lower energy requirements. This will save you money in the long run, and contribute towards saving the environment.8) Your bathroom is a precious space, so try and select at least one luxurious element, even if you are working on a tight budget. The new Hansgrohe Rainmaker Select showers have large heads that enhance the overall showering experience, as well as the bathroom environment.9) Buy quality products with a backup warranty or guarantee. They might cost you more but the guaranteed quality means less hassle in the future.10) Remember that bathroom design does not have to be clinical. Bring in a personal touch as your bathroom is one of the most used and intimate spaces in your home.www.hansgrohe.co.za