That was the tale of woe the Springboks were inflicting on 27 000 souls in their Rugby Championship opener here yesterday before the gravity of their unfolding nightmare seemed to register.It took 68 minutes for the wake-up call to come - when they were staring down the barrel 10 points adrift.Spurred on by the home crowd, which displayed a remarkable patience, the hosts finally took to their task with alacrity. Rugby Wayde's in with the hypeFirst Johan Goosen got over the line after a solid scrum following some deft running and passing from Faf de Klerk, then Elton Jantjies kicked a penalty that levelled matters, before Warren Whiteley brought delirium to the arena when he scored the match-clinching try.He celebrated on his knees, the Pumas assumed the same position in despair.It was a stunning comeback that speaks volumes for the team's resolve, but they do make a habit of leaving it late in the Lowveld.Earlier the Pumas players showed none of the lassitude that at times paralysed them in Super Rugby. They warmed to their task at the ruck, while their defence, particularly at the maul, was outstanding.Their captain Agustin Creevy, playing in his 50th test, had the gait of a hyena that made him a formidable opponent in the tight exchanges, while young No 8 Facundo Isa showed he will develop into a player of enduring quality.The tourists were resolute as they were resourceful but, ultimately, with the goal-line in sight, they ran out of legs. "We are very angry but we have to learn to play for 80 minutes," said coach Daniel Hourcade.For the Springboks the first half started with promise, but errors and missed opportunities conspired against them. Two first-half penalties drifted wide, another hit the upright, while centre Lionel Mapoe lost the ball in the act of what appeared to be a routine touchdown. Record score as Kiwis go on the rampageAll the while the Pumas were sinking their claws deeper into Bok flesh.Their composure seemed to have abandoned them and they fell foul of the most rudimentary errors. They could not hold on to the ball and their game was devoid of the continuity needed to chip away at the visitors' resolve.Turnovers were the order of the day and the second half was developing into farce before Bok coach Allister Coetzee turned to his bench. Pieter-Steph du Toit was inspiring.Before he departed the scene Lood de Jager's defence was robust, while Oupa Mohoje's interventions proved timely.Johan Goosen made some sprightly incursions into the line in the first half and again late in the game.Whiteley as usual was in perpetual motion, while Eben Etzebeth made a potentially match-saving tackle on goalline-bound winger Manuel Montera.De Klerk was a livewire when he needed to be, but the Bok back division has yet to click.Coetzee was pleased with the result, but not the 20 minutes either side of the break. "For 40 to 45 minutes I wasn't happy but I was happy with the last 15. There is a resolve in the team you cannot coach. We have things to sort out and we want to get it right."SCORERSSpringboks (30) - Tries: Ruan Combrinck, Johan Goosen, Warren Whiteley. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (3). Penalties: Jantjies (3).Pumas (23) - Tries: Matias Orlando, Santiago Cordero. Conversions: Nicolas Sanchez (2). Penalties: Sanchez (3).sports@timesmedia.co.za