I'm half Mosotho and half English, so Lesotho will always be an inspiration - blankets and seshoeshoe have always been in my life. Blankets are part of the d cor in my house; I love wearing items by Thabo Makhetha and seshoeshoe outfits from Bonono Merchants, young Maseru designers who make baseball-style shirts, dressess and more. One of my favourites from my shoe range is the brogues that feature seshoeshoe cloth.I don't think any other place would have allowed me to make the moves I did. First as the co-owner of a media company, Black Rage Productions, then as a publicist working in the cultural, entertainment and media scenes, and finally as an accessories designer. Every day I see amazing, inspiring creativity and entrepreneurial vibes that can make your dreams come true. I love living high above the city in my Yeoville flat. I love walking the inspiring streets; everywhere I look I see buildings, clothes, beadwork and stylish hustlers that I take photos of and post to Instagram.It's constant discovery and collaboration. Right now I'm making new beadwork with a Tsonga woman who sells maize on the street; my necklace maker weaves together West African fabrics next to a taxi rank; my shoes are made in Jeppestown, and Congolese men make my bags. I am always fabric and bead and vintage shopping across the city. If I am down it soothes me and brings me up.The Kwa Mai Mai market on End Street is amazing - every little room of muthi, Zulu, Xhosa and Tsonga bead work, Zulu Mblaselo pants, spear, fighting stick and imbhatata sandal-making is inspiring. I also love the wedding trousseau trunks. Lisa Firer's 7 components that achieve creativity Wherever you put your finger on the map of this continent there is amazing music, design, creativity, entrepreneurship and innovation, not to mention variety. There is a well of traditions and tales that will never dry up. I'd love to travel up and down and from side to side sourcing jewels and cloth and partying and collaborating. For now, I observe images and books and social media and make items inspired by our beautiful continent. Hi my name is Maria McCloy and I'm a social media addict. Yeah, I said it, but constantly being on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter has helped me build my brand in an amazing way. I can post an image and make a sale to anyone anywhere in the world! I'm also inspired by the images and political discussions I see online. I discover new art and fashion, see what my friends and peers are up to and make new professional and personal connections. I love it. I'm not so sure about Snapchat though. It took me until I was 38 to have my first manicure, for a friend's wedding. Since then, my real nails have not seen the light of day. I rock the stiletto style constantly, my three-weekly appointment gives me a rare occasion to treat myself and sit still. And, also, what is spoken of at the nail bar, stays in the nail bar! 5 minutes with restaurateur and entrepreneur Jacques ErasmusNokulinda Mkhize gives such comfort and wisdom and she communes with her ancestors and mine. She has been pivotal in helping with direction and sanity in my life, love, business and everything else. I love the fact that she has reached the next level of her calling by becoming a Gobela, as she has trained her first initiate, but that she also loves champagne, fashion, using social media in her work and dancing to Babes Wodumo. I couldn't live without music. It inspired me to become an urban culture writer in my youth when I covered the burgeoning kwaito and other scenes, and I remained in that world as a publicist. Music reflects so much of our society. I turn on the radio as soon as I get up.I love local house, the Durban kwaito scene and everything from hip hop to nu R&amp;B, electronica and everything in between. My favourite discovery this year is Cape Town afro electronica band Original Swimming Party. You can find Maria McCloy every day at her retail space in Work Shop NewTown and on Sundays at Maboneng's Market on Main. Alternatively, follow her on Instagram @mariamccloy