Not that it is much of a race - the woodwork is still well populated.Wakefield, who would have made a formidable opponent, will not contest the top job. Instead he has promised to back Alexander, Hoskins' long-standing deputy."I will throw my weight behind Mark. I have to support the acting president," said Wakefield."He possesses the qualities for the job. He's very well connected in government and the private sector. He is a suitable candidate who can unify the executive."I'm not saying I'm not capable of doing the job but I think he's the guy for the job. I don't want to sound over-ambitious. Why should I back myself if I see good qualities in another person?"Wakefield said, however, that he would not rule out running for deputy president. "It is something that I will have to think about. I haven't spoken to anyone so I don't know who else will put themselves in the running."Golden Lions president Kevin de Klerk may yet throw his hat into the ring. The former Bok lock is yet to decide whether to make himself available for the top job or the position as deputy president."I still have to apply my mind," said De Klerk yesterday. "I've been involved with the Lions for eight years now and it has taken a large chunk of my life. It is a big decision to make," said De Klerk.SA Rugby announced on Friday that they will be taking nominations until September 26 to find a replacement for Hoskins, who resigned almost a fortnight ago.Alexander is acting president until a general meeting on October 27 when a new president will be elected.A provincial source who did not want to be named said the election may well be determined by the formation of coalitions. He said there is an acceptance that Alexander is unlikely to be challenged but that the position of deputy president may be hotly disputed.De Klerk and Wakefield may yet be central characters in that north versus south battle. De Klerk stressed that SA Rugby faces huge challenges with issues around a lengthy Super Rugby competition, a diluted Currie Cup, transformation and the country's image in need of revision. "I'm a rugby person. I'm here for rugby," he said.Wakefield stressed that he would not seek higher office for personal gain. "We have to get SA Rugby to take its rightful place in world rugby. We also need to establish unity in our boardrooms. Whoever seeks a higher position should not do it to protect the interest of their provincial union or the prestige that is attached to it."