It's not often a fashion designer precedes an interview by sending over a forensically detailed, 14-slide Powerpoint presentation crammed with statistics from corporate behemoths, quotes from eminent psychologists and references to behavioural economics. But then Nina McLemore is no ordinary fashion designer.A former executive at Liz Claiborne, a firm which filled a work-wear niche in the 80s, and founder of a private investment company, McLemore has made it her business to create clothes specifically perfectly tailored blazers which help women to navigate what she calls the C-suite (high-powered boardroom positions) with style, ease and confidence.Hillary Clinton, the self-declared pantsuit aficionado (according to her Twitter biography), has depended on McLemore s key pieces as she has navigated her way from first lady to US presidential nominee.Clinton, Sanders face off in New York debateFrom the bold turquoise jacket she wore to meet the then South Korean president Lee Myung-bak as secretary of state to the fuchsia blazer she s chosen for frequent TV appearances, Nina McLemore has been lending her sartorial support throughout.For many of McLemore s high-achieving fans, from PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi to US senator Elizabeth Warren, it s her no-nonsense approach to power dressing that has won them over. Even when she s not wearing McLemore s label, Clinton stays true to her rules; when she appeared via video link to address the Democrat National Convention recently, it was in a pink jacket with the signature stand-up collar which McLemore favours ( it projects more confidence ).The tailored jackets and trouser suits for which McLemore has become famous are all founded on meticulous market research. Every detail is backed up with hard-to-argue-with and very pragmatic reasoning. For example, she rarely makes anything black and encourages her clients to wear bright hues. Colour can change your attractiveness entirely and how people see you, McLemore explains. What a woman wants is skin that has a pink touch to it, not grey or yellow, which is what black does. I ve given many talks to law firms, accounting firms. I walk in and 70%-80% of the people are in black, so of course they don t stand out. The sleeves on McLemore s jackets are cut to be a couple of centimetres longer than those of a standard-sized jacket, but they come with linings in contrasting hues which can be flicked up to the exact right length, without having to faff around with getting it tailored. The trick also lets them emulate the rolled-up shirt cuffs trick which has become a sartorial signalling favourite of male politicians.She will never create a blazer with a power shoulder (too unflattering) and keeps the silhouette neat but allows plenty of room around the back and arms for ease of movement and gesturing. Anything else? A jacket that s buttoned is more slimming than jackets that aren t. </img> Hillary Clinton complements Barack Obama in blue. Image: WIRE IMAGESHillary Clinton complements Barack Obama in blue. Image: WIRE IMAGESMcLemore explains: Essentially, it s all about the image that you re portraying ... internally and externally, it s not just about how other people see you but also how you see yourself. There s also an impact on your cognitive ability the research is showing how you dress has a definite effect. This kind of prescriptive styling is a response to the uniform way of dressing which men have adopted in the workplace for years, McLemore says. There is no uniform for women and our bodies have more places with shape than men, she observes, noting that women also have more interesting tools in their arsenal to play with. We can change things with hair, makeup and shoes.The first message women need to learn at a young age is if they re serious about their careers they need to dress a certain way. The fashion industry has adopted this very sexually provocative image so ... it s very hard to find clothes projecting a powerful, confident image. Women from a very early stage in their careers need to think about dressing to succeed. Dressing in a way that the people in power see you as someone who is serious about her career The fact that high-profile women are more closely scrutinised than men is constantly bemoaned, but that, says McLemore, is an opportunity. Women who are CEOs or in high positions ... are strong people and able to deal with really difficult challenges. They can be tough when they need to be but when there s tension in the room they can deflate it with a sense of humour. It means the clothes you wear also can send that message of I m a positive person much more challenging for men in grey suits to project, short of resorting to a novelty tie. And what of her most famous client? As far as Hillary is concerned, the general consensus is that fashion is not her strength, McLemore says. One of the challenges she has is that she does not photograph well. In person she s much more slim and much more attractive than on camera, so I think that she probably needs to think about clothes that make her look slimmer. But also clothes that appeal to a younger audience; she is not particularly winning over huge numbers of young women. </img>Hillary Clinton accepted the Democratic Party's nomination ina white pantsuit. Image: GETTY IMAGES Hillary Clinton accepted the Democratic Party's nomination ina white pantsuit. Image: GETTY IMAGESWith such conflicting campaign trail pressures, it s little wonder that the cheerful appeal of tailoring with scientific levels of fit has become Clinton's signature. McLemore s rules mean that she can at least count on her clothes to make her feel confident and powerful. And, as she prepares to face Trump a powerful armour will be everything. The colour that looks good on everybody is blue, particularly if it has a touch of red in it. It s the No1 for getting a positive response from both men and women. Turquoise is flattering for everyone, then coral and red. I don t recommend pink unless it s a magenta because it s not flattering for most people but green is also great, McLemore says. Women from a very early stage in their careers need to think about dressing to succeed. Dressing in a way that the people in power see you as someone who is serious about her career and wants to be sitting at that top table. Getting dressed is much easier if you have a formula you know will work, the designer says. Having a style which is yours makes it easier to get dressed in the morning. Figure out what looks good on you, what s flattering and be consistent. The Daily Telegraph, London