Readers who have yet to lose their minds and their contraceptives might not know what Papachinos is.It is a restaurant chain whose major selling point is that its outlets are extremely child-friendly, complete with child minders who take over dealing with your brats while you enjoy a decent meal. This is a much bigger deal for parents than non-parents can imagine.Anyway, during this party the host calls our waiter over to give him the kids' drinks order which (surprise, surprise) included about five Cream Sodas. "I'm sorry sir, but we're out of Cream Soda." The waiter was clearly an entertaining chap, with a bright future as a comedian, so we all burst out laughing. Because everyone knows you can't have a kids' party without Cream Soda, right? How I turned into a bearded version of my motherWrong. He wasn't joking. So now we burst out laughing again - at the absurdity of a kiddies' restaurant that has no Cream Soda.But I have experienced even worse absurdities.To paraphrase Ashleigh Brilliant, I always try to take it one day at a time. But a few months ago, several days decided to attack me all at once - such that I even forgot to eat all day.Just when my tummy was starting to digest my pancreas, I saw a sign that made my eyes light up with all the glee of an MP receiving an e-mail from a Gupta.It was a red-and-white sign bearing the face of a bearded Colonel, and the beautiful words: "KFC Drive Thru"."Welcome to KFC, sir! How may I help you?" said the chirpy girl at the window."Ah yes. May I please have a Streetwise 2 and a Fanta Orange.""I'm sorry sir, we're currently out of chicken but you can order one of our Zinger burgers ..."She said this matter-of-factly. Without the slightest acknowledgement of the ludicrousness of her declaration.Whoa, whoa! Time out. Let's go back 1.3 seconds - to the part where you're telling me you're out of something. You're out of WHAT? Because sometimes I fancy myself as Trevor Noah (without The Daily Show or eight zeros in my bank account) I looked at her and said: "In that case, please remove the 'C' in 'KFC'."She didn't get it. Instead, she waited impatiently for my chickenless order or for me to move along so that she could tell the next customer that this Kentucky Fried Chicken was ready to serve customers who didn't want chicken.It's not that I have it in for KFC. I've arrived at a McDonald's only to be told that they're out of burger buns. The experience was a bit like arriving in Durban and discovering that Durban was fresh out of beach.Look, I'll be the first to tell you that there were valid reasons for the KFC and McDonald's being out of chicken and buns respectively. The part I don't get is staying open for business despite the glaring existential problem.Granted, these franchises sell more than just chicken and burgers. But to use that as an excuse is like making an episode of Seinfeld even though Jerry Seinfeld was sick on the day of shooting, on the rationale that people don't watch the show just for Jerry but for George, Kramer and Elaine too.I believe this was the logic employed when the producers of Two and a Half Men decided to continue with the show after Charlie Sheen left. The Charlie-less Two and a half Men was like The Commodores without Lionel Richie; spectacularly pointless. Why can't you like both Beyonc and Taylor Swift?And there are so many of these situations. I've arrived at the Engen around the corner from my house and found the place operational except for one small snag: being out of fuel. I've even been to a doctor's rooms which were open despite the fact that the doctor was not present. The ladies at reception were telling everyone that he was not coming back that day.I can't think of any credible reason why the practice was open. Perhaps the doctor's assistants were horsing around and giving each other anaesthetics for recreational purposes.But then again, I don't remember ever finding a Home Affairs office closed because the computers were offline. Ditto the banks. And during last year's load-shedding, Mrs N, the midgets and I once entered a restaurant in Port Elizabeth. The waitress took our drinks order, but when we started to order food she told us: "Sorry, the kitchen is closed due to the load-shedding."I often used to imagine former Eskom CEO Tshediso Matona arriving home from the office to a dark house after a long day of doing everything but providing electricity. And as he sits there by the flickering light of a candle, eating a cold salad, his kids ask: "So Daddy, what did you do at work today?"Speaking of Matona, I understand that he's now employed at the National Planning Commission based on his excellent track record of planning at Eskom. I wonder how much planning goes on there in any case. I haven't seen much evidence of it. Truth be told, my lazy brain has also wondered aloud why the government continues operating without much evidence of governance.It's almost as pointless as being a member of Zuma's cabinet without being a friend of the Guptas.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo