A common argument is whether the word "dog" should be counted as one word (the noun for an animal that is always pleased to see you) or two (the verb that means "to follow closely" - also known as stalking).There are technical words, obsolete words, words that exist simply to join or qualify other words, foreign words, dialect, slang, jargon and abbreviations. Making allowance for new words that constantly swell the river of English as well as those that dry up from neglect, experts estimate the total to be somewhere between a quarter of a million and three-quarters of a million. That's a wide margin. Dressing up words at the drop of a hatWith all these resources at our disposal, we should never be at a loss for words. And yet there is no single word for being unable to find a word to adequately express oneself. Not that I can think of, anyway.I'm not calling English inadequate or dull or anything, but when you look at some of the intricate concepts and emotions expressed in one word in other languages, it's hard not to feel a bit envious.There should be a word for the benevolent act of giving information that makes someone else's life richer. Reader Judy Kean did this for me when she informed me of a book called Landmarks, nature writer Robert McFarlane's lexicon of wild words from various dialects. One of these is smeuse - "the gap in the base of a hedge made by the regular passage of a small animal".An essay on mind-broadening website The Book of Life lists 30 other untranslatable words. The one I like best is the Scottish tartle - that moment of hesitation when you forget someone's name. I have not been able to establish whether tartle is a verb or a noun. When you pretend to choke on a peppermint while saying a name that could be interpreted as either "Kerryn" or "Angelica", are you tartling? Or is the moment of pretend-choking in order to buy time known as a tartle?The most sensual word on this list comes from Brazil, where they speak not Brazilian but a hot-blooded type of Portuguese. Cafun , in the land of Neymar and Gisele, is "the act of running one's fingers, gently but deeply, through someone else's hair".Speaking of hair, the Japanese have the word age-otori, which is what happens when you look in the mirror after a haircut and feel your heart plummet to the floor to curl up with the sad, limp, non-reattachable shanks of your former glory. The lexicon of modern food writers is positively sinfulAnother strange but rather pretty word is the Swedish g kotta - the intentional act of waking up early specifically to go outside and hear the birds sing.I can't say I have ever experienced g kotta. You don't need to get up and go outside to hear the hadedas where I live. You can still hear them even with your head under the pillow.What we really need is a word for the moment of hesitation when you are on the telephone to someone foreign who has never heard a hadeda before and the idiot bird's jarring scream interrupts your conversation, followed by a confused and slightly embarrassed silence on the other side of the line as the person to whom you are talking wonders what torture is being conducted in your home, and you aren't sure whether to say "it's just a hadeda", because then you would have to explain what a hadeda is and then you'd be over-explaining and would sound even more like the sort of person who had forgotten to close the door of the torture chamber before answering the phone.What, I ask, would you call that?E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1