Goddard, who was seen as the whistle-blower in Bafana Bafana's fixed friendlies ahead of the 2010 World Cup and acknowledged by convicted Singaporean match-fixer Wilson Raj Perumal as the "only man in South Africa" who blocked him, was banned for two years by Fifa's Ethics Committee on Sunday.Former SA Football Association (Safa) chief executive Leslie Sedibe was also banned for five years for his alleged role in the scandal and was fined R310000 by Fifa. However, Sedibe is contesting the ban and says he won't pay the fine.Former Safa head of referees Goddard, who was working as match commissioner when he was banned this week, claims he received a chilling call from Perumal while driving from Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville after Bafana's 1-0 victory against Denmark on June 5 2010. Goddard had installed South African Matthew Dyer as referee for the Denmark game, replacing Ibrahim Chaibou, the much-investigated official from Niger. This raised Perumal's ire."His basic message was: 'We'll eliminate you.' I'm told I've got to change the South Africans officiating Nigeria v North Korea in Atteridgeville the next day. So I took Daniel Bennett out. Surprise, surprise, it's the referee from Niger [Chaibou]."You look at it and say: 'Is it worth losing your life?' Maybe it was but I wouldn't have been here to tell the story."In Huddersfield, Goddard built aircraft carriers for the English navy that saw action in the Falklands war.The Yorkshireman says when he was a referee in the National Soccer League from 1985 to 1993, "nobody approached me. They knew it was a waste of time."Having done his bit to block match-fixing, Goddard feels betrayed by Fifa. The 69-year-old said he received a list of 45 questions from the Ethics Committee he felt were "aimed at, 'You are already a criminal'. But I answered them."Having been invited to Zurich by Fifa at their own expense, he couldn't take up the offer as "the date was so tight I couldn't even get a visa in that time. And incidentally, neither could I afford a visa at R2000-odd to go to Zurich."Having failed to turn up at first, he was then told to turn up at his own expense: "I'm 69, I'm retired, I live off my pension, so to hell with that one..."So they conduct an investigation without you going to face these guys. I got the impression that the Ethics Committee have no understanding what the word 'ethics' means."I even started feeling sorry for Blatter..."Fifa president Sepp Blatter resigned last year amidst a World Cup vote-rigging scandal."I've told anybody who has asked questions, find [Perumal's e-book] Kelong Kings on the internet and see what my friend Perumal has to say about me," Goddard said.Perumal wrote of Goddard: "If it weren't for him, we would have been in cruise control in South Africa."Given that sentiment, he is baffled by his ban: "You say to yourself, 'how the hell, under that situation, can anybody be found guilty of match-fixing?'"Fifa says five Bafana matches in the build-up to the 2010 World Cup were fixed by Perumal's front company, Football4U."Football4U were trying to infiltrate other games. They flew match officials in from Bosnia-Herzegovina to take the game between USA and Australia," Goddard said."I blocked them on that and several other attempts to infiltrate games, including Portugal against Mozambique at the Wanderers. I made sure SA referees took charge of those games. Now if I was someone who was match-fixing, what was I doing blocking?"sports@timesmedia.co.za