It's just who he is, a self-effacing player content to let others take the headlines. He sings "Billiat, Billiat, Billiat" when we start talking about the player of the season, just so that we talk less about him and more about his Mamelodi Sundowns teammate and Zimbabwe international Khama Billiat, a hot favourite for the award.So, does Kekana think he is underrated? He laughed and then says ... "I don't know.""I would not complain [about being underrated]. I would not say I am unhappy with what I am getting. I am one person who likes to give glory to my teammates. For me it's all about the team."This question was asked towards the end of our interview, so you can imagine how difficult getting Kekana to speak about the amazing season he is having for Sundowns was.ORLANDO PIRATES 2 KAIZER CHIEFS 0Does he miss playing for Bafana Bafana? "You see now," he says. "Why are you going there? I am just happy to play football. I am enjoying myself."Kekana does most of his talking on the pitch and he is doing a lot of it at the moment. Even though all of the attention has been given to Billiat, Keagan Dolly and Leonardo Castro, it is hard to ignore the energy, long diagonal passes, the timely tackles and of course the goals Kekana is scoring from midfield this season.Seven goals in all competitions is phenomenal for a holding midfielder, but of course, he plays it down in classic Kekana style."It's a fluke," he laughs. "I'm lucky to be at the right place at the right time."Goals come when you work hard and get yourself in those scoring positions."If Kekana won't talk himself up, then his coach Pitso Mosimane definitely will. Mosimane has been singing the player's praises and says it would be a shock not to have Kekana as a player- of-the-season nominee.He's right. Usually it's the strikers or attacking midfielders who get recognition, but Kekana is making it hard for anyone to ignore his incredible form."If it was up to me, I would say I deserve to be there [as a nominee]," Kekana says. "[But] It's not up to me. I don't choose. When I leave the pitch, I never regret anything because I always give my all."This morning [Thursday] I was looking at my pictures when I was 18. I was a small boy. All I wanted was to play football. I had just joined Black Leopards [in the 2004/05 season]. Look how far I have come."At 30 I've won the league three times and I have played for Bafana Bafana. I am happy that I still have the hunger to win things."Bafana crisis? What crisis?Clearly Kekana is more fulfilled when he wins trophies with teammates rather than winning individual awards. He could be up on the podium with his teammates a few more times this season when you look at what's still up for grabs for Sundowns.Already they've won the Telkom Knockout and have a great opportunity to win a treble, as they comfortably sit at the top of the Absa Premiership table and today begin the defence of their Nedbank Cup title."We can do it [win a treble]. It's been a very good season. We work for each other and everyone is contributing with goals," Kekana says.There's also the Caf Champions League trophy he would like to win."I want to be like Jerry Sikhosana and that Pirates team [of 1995]. I was still at school, so you can imagine the excitement. It drove me," said Kekana, who is part of a group of players at Sundowns who have Bible studies and attend church at Chloorkop.Shakes Mashaba is set to announce the Bafana squad on Thursday to face Cameroon and Kekana has put his hand up for selection.Kekana, however, is focused on the Nedbank Cup tie against Highlands Park in Tembisa, on the East Rand, today. He's suspended, so it will be interesting to see how Downs cope.sports@timesmedia.co.za