I refuse to read anything into the fact that the stabber is a Ronaldo fan. I think it is immaterial that if looks could kill during their last co-appearance at the Fifa Ballon d'Or award ceremony, Messi would also be deader than a dodo.I also think it would be grossly irresponsible of me to suggest that geniuses eliminating each other over the "Messi or Ronaldo" question sounds an awful lot like nature culling the herd. But this tragic incident reminded me of when I was invited to speak to the Wits chapter of my Inkamana High alumni association last October.At about 11pm I was invited to help settle a feisty argument about the very same issue. My contribution? "You guys should be celebrating the fact that you're alive to witness the two best football players you're likely to ever see. Why can't you enjoy both of them?" They paused for a moment to inspect my hairline for a frontal lobotomy scar before hurtling into each other again like extras in a battle scene from Braveheart .The two examples above are nothing more than extreme manifestations of a universal human phenomenon. The default human condition dictates that when confronted with two options, we feel almost duty bound to choose one over the other even when we don't really have to. Heaven looks like this: zzzzzzzzA few years ago I made disparaging remarks about Beyonc Knowles using this very space. I believe I characterised what she does as ''alleged singing" and questioned whether she owns a pair of pants because of her propensity to perform in her drawers. Hordes of Beyonc fans descended on me like flies upon a pot of ox tripe. Why, even as recently as last year I was accosted by a disgruntled Beyonc fan. She was relieved to hear that I had since seen the error of my ways and consider Beyonc to be a serious artist, with or without pants.How this Damascus U-turn came about is that I was driving home in the wees when Love On Top came on the radio. For the uninitiated, in that song she achieves the rare feat of changing key four times. Those of us who can read music call this modulation. By the time the song was over I was drenched in sweat.Recently, my eight-year-old bolted out of the bedroom to ask me to settle a heated argument he was having with the 11-year-old: Beyonc or Taylor Swift? I donned my King Solomon robe and asked wisely: "Why does it have to be one or the other? Why can't you like both of them?" even though, truth be told, I am totally unfamiliar with Taylor Swift's music. What I found fascinating was that when I was growing up, we had similar fights. Brenda Fassie burst onto the music scene with a bang with Weekend Special. When Yvonne Chaka Chaka followed suit with I'm in Love with a DJ in 1985, the scene was set for a display of the worst kind of gangster mentality. Everyone had to choose: Brenda or Yvonne? I was firmly in the Brenda camp and anyone who was an Yvonne fan I considered to be an impregnable fortress of stupidity.The madness continued well into the '90s, the pinnacle of this flawed binary thinking being no better illustrated than during the "East side" vs "West side" movements. The principals were one The Notorious B.I.G. (a.k.a Biggie Smallz), who was from New York, on the East Coast of the US, and one Tupac Amaru Shakur, who hailed from Los Angeles, on the West Coast of the US. Real men like chick flicks tooTo hear the story being told, it was impossible to appreciate both B.I.G's rhymes and Tupac's fierce lyrics. Einsteins as far afield as Newlands in the north of Durban and Mitchells Plain on the southernmost tip of Cape Town donned bandanas and shot each other based on this nonsense. Without any sense of irony about being "East side" while living in the Western Cape or "West side" while living in Durban. In the end, both Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smallz perished in pools of their own blood, under a hail of bullets.Sadly, this kind of thinking permeates more than just football and pop music. Just this past week our bored former emperor, in the grip of the most rabid form of gangster mentality, penned yet another letter to us, "A brief commentary on the question of HIV and Aids". And by "brief" he meant about 2,700 words that I nearly gave myself brain herniation trying to wade through, seeking the point he was making.From what I could read, he'd applied his immense intellectual capacity to reminding us that he was right on the "is it the HI virus or poverty that causes Aids?" question. That's it. This is presumably because it can obviously only be one or the other despite any 16-year-old who does Grade 11 biology being aware that while you can't get Aids without the virus, poverty is an extenuating ingredient in the overall cocktail of factors.He ended the letter with three questions, asking if Castro Hlongwane, the World Health Organisation and Jon Basil Utley were wrong. Clearly, right and wrong are the be-all and end-all in his paradigm. If I'm right, our former president with the either/or mentality probably doesn't own Yvonne Chaka Chaka CDs, because Brenda Fassie is the answer to the "Brenda or Yvonne" question.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo