To those writers of press releases promising to "wet" the appetite: I am hungry when my appetite is sharpened like a knife on a whetstone. This is called whetting the appetite. When my appetite is wet, on the other hand, all it does is drip on the carpet and put me in a bad mood.The erroneous "wet" can be dried out with a lesson in spelling, but can morality be taught? I have noticed lately that a lot of formerly good food seems to have gone bad. Some of it is being sold at the new Danish supermarket that stocks only past-its-sell-by-date merchandise (a fine idea that should be adopted by more countries) but most of it, according to purveyors of foodishness, can be found at fine restaurants, expensive delicatessens and especially bakeries.How NOT to write a restaurant reviewIt is rare, these days, to read about a chocolate cake that is not "decadent". What happened to all the prim, polite cakes who liked nothing better than going to bed early after a light salad and a game of netball? Were they corrupted by sinful tarts?Words associated with moral degradation have become wildly popular in food writing. Pancakes are perfidious, ice cream is iniquitous, waffles are wicked and oysters are orgiastic.There was a time when "divine" and "heavenly" were used to describe a particularly good slice of banana bread, but that was before the Fall. I have not yet come across a menu that offers satanic spanakopita, but I'm sure it won't be long.That doesn't mean all food is foul, however. Marketers have a field day selling items labelled "natural", "simple" and "pure" to the health-conscious. ("Health-conscious" is a ridiculous term, if you ask me, with its pejorative implication that anyone who doesn't spend four times the usual price on "organic" beans grown in a flower bed also used for ablutions by the hobby farmer's hippie hedgehogs is by contrast unnatural, overcomplicated, impure and unconscious.)But back to decadence, which in modern parlance means an excessive and potentially unhealthy devotion to pleasure. Moderation and temperance no longer apply in the kingdom of cake. If you're not decadent, you're toast.It is interesting - perhaps even mildly ironic - that the word "decadent" began to be used in a positive sense about desserts only in the 1970s. Before that, decadence was not just bad; it was rotten. Yes, studying words is still relevant in today's societyThe English word "decadence" comes via French from the Latin root decadere, "to decay". Artists and writers in Paris in the late 1800s liked to refer to themselves as living in an age of decadence, which was a prefrenchious way of saying that everything was going downhill from there.The first encounters between food and decadence were not pleasant. Take this example from a 1960 academic newsletter, quoted by the Online Etymology Dictionary: "Bread, supposedly the staff of life, has become one of our most decadent foods - doughy, gummy, and without the aroma, flavour, texture, taste and appearance that is typical of good bread."Not exactly what today's food writers mean when they speak of decadent crumpets, is it? The decaying sort of decadence leaves a bad taste in the mouth, Danish supermarkets excepted.Perhaps "hedonism" is a better word. From hedone, the Greek word for pleasure, hedonism has always referred to a doctrine where pleasure is the highest goal. Today we might call it self-indulgence. During the French Revolution, of course, hedonism led to the unintended consequence of headoffism.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1