The Fifa Ethics Committee last Sunday banned the former head of referees Goddard, who was seen as the whistle-blower in the entire saga, and Adeel Carelse for two years, and former Safa chief executive Leslie Sedibe for five years.Sedibe, Carelse and Goddard were banned for "infringing general rules of conduct, loyalty and duty of disclosure, cooperation and reporting relating to match-fixing of international friendly matches played in South Africa in 2010".Football official Lindile "Ace" Kika was banned for six years last October for charges relating to the same charges.Goddard believes he went through the proper channels when he became aware that something was afoot, alerting current Safa chief executive and then Bafana team manager, Dennis Mumble, and then president Kirsten Nematandani, that match-fixing was taking place surrounding the five warm-up matches ahead of the 2010 World Cup. 'We will kill you' Former referees boss tells of death threat after refusing to fix friendlyGoddard said he brought concerns to Nematandani on the dubious nature of Football4U, the front company of now-convicted Singaporean match fixer Wilson Raj Perumal, which Safa had signed up to arrange friendly matches and referees. He said these were not followed up.Goddard alleged some members of the Bafana technical team had direct contact with Football4U before the matches."I can't name names, but one member of the then Bafana technical team told me about three months ago that a certain section [of the technical team] met with Football4U before each of the friendlies," he said."And there was never any information that came back to the rest of ... that technical team."Asked if he could respond to this allegation given he was part of the technical team, Mumble said he would not comment on any aspect of match-fixing, referring Times Media to Safa head of ethics Poobalan Govindasamy, who neither answered his cellphone nor returned a text message sent to him.If Goddard's allegations that the Bafana technical staff had direct contact with Football4U seem far-fetched, they appear to be backed up by an assertion made by Carelse that employees of the company sat in a pre-match meeting ahead of an SA Under-23 friendly match against Egypt in January 2011.Carelse was not informed of a last-minute venue change, but still managed to drive match officials to the new venue, according to Goddard. Goddard said Carelse received death threats surrounding that match. In an e-mail to Times Media, Carelse wrote: "The commitment [for Football4U] to continue after the World Cup is there. On 6th January 2011, a match was arranged between Egypt and South Africa under-23. When I arrived at the pre-match meeting, I saw some of the same individuals of Football4U at the meeting."The SA Under-23 match took place seven months after the World Cup, long after Safa had been alerted to Football4U's nefarious activities."I told Mumble at the end of the game against Guatemala in Polokwane [on May 31 2010], to his face, in the technical area: 'This match was fixed.' He seemed surprised. Any idiot on this earth could see it was fixed," Goddard said."And then he tells me [later], face to face, in his office, 'Yes, I remember that conversation'. And he also became convinced when action was taken in Atteridgeville when [the original referee] was replaced [in Bafana's 1-0 win against Denmark on June 5]. What I'm saying is how Mumble is still in a position at Safa I do not know."Goddard says he was informed by then president of Botswana Football Association, David Fani, not to trust Perumal. Perumal had allegedly tried to fix Botswana matches.He said he informed Nematandani of Fani's concerns the day after Bafana's 1-1 draw against Bulgaria in Orlando on May 25 2010."I gave Nematandani Fani's phone number. All Kirsten Nematandani had to do was ring Fani for confirmation. And he didn't do that."Mumble, in his personal capacity, responded through a lawyer's letter drafted by Ndebele Attorneys.The letter labelled Goddard's accusations "spurious, inflammatory, unfounded and trumped up".It read: "Our client denies, in the strongest possible terms the frivolous and baseless allegations levelled against him by Mr Goddard. Such allegations are not only trumped up, devoid of any truth, but defamatory, malicious, vexatious and without any merit and/or foundation."Nematandani insisted that Goddard should seek recourse with Fifa."He gave that information to the [Fifa] investigators, so why do I come in now? I'm not an investigator, so he must tell that to the investigators," Nematandani said."I can't change what happened... I'm not going to comment."Nematandani added he was not aware if he had been cleared by Fifa since he had not received any communication from the football governing body.In a press conference this week, Sedibe alleged that Fifa avoided dealing with the real culprits.Nematandani, Carelse, Kika and Mumble and official Barney Kujane were initially suspended by Safa in January 2013 following the release of a Fifa match-fixing report, but the suspensions were shortly reversed.The matches identified by Fifa as being fixed were Bafana's 4-0 win over Thailand, 1-1 draw against Bulgaria, 2-1 win against Colombia, 5-0 win against Guatemala and 1-0 victory over Denmark.sports@timesmedia.co.za