Having won their qualifying group in India, Afghanistan have lost their two games in the World Twenty20 so far, but were competitive in both, making scores of 153 against Sri Lanka and 172 against South Africa.Shir Agha Hamkar told BBC Sport: "You can see the difference compared to the last World Twenty20. The guys are performing very well, they have played very good cricket."It's true that we haven't won matches, but we have won so many hearts in this tournament. We are watching social media - Facebook and Twitter. The people are so happy after the last game with the way we played." It's do-or-die for IndiaHe added: "We saw their last game, they are a good batting team and have good allround strength in their team. You cannot take a full member team as an easy team but the way these Afghan players are playing anything is possible."The broader aim of Afghan cricket is to be taken seriously by the International Cricket Council on a par with full member nations.Shir Agha Hamkar points out their recent results demand it."Against Zimbabwe, who are full members, we have played two Twenty20 series and two ODI series. We have won all four of them," he said.The story of Afghan cricket's rise from the refugee camps of northern Pakistan and the ruins of a broken country has been well told over the years, most notably in the 2010 documentary film Out of the Ashes.But after a decade of startling progress that has seen them rise to No9 in the world Twenty20 rankings, now comes the sequel. Can Afghanistan complete the transition to an elite international team - possibly even a test nation - while retaining the unorthodoxy and unpredictability that has got them to this point?An unlikely India/Pakistan aegis is currently trying to answer this very question. The legendary Pakistan batsman Inzamam-ul-Haq was a surprise choice when he was appointed as Afghanistan's head coach last October, but along with new bowling coach, the former Indian allrounder Manoj Prabhakar, the pair offer Afghanistan what they most obviously lack: top-end international experience.Not everything has gone smoothly. There was a minor bust-up between Inzamam and captain Asghar Stanikzai earlier in the tournament, when Stanikzai walked out of a training session early and received a stern public dressing-down.And after defeats by Sri Lanka, South Africa and England there is no chance of any further progress in the tournament. But at no stage have they been outclassed. The talent is there. All that is required is some tightening of a few loose screws.And yet, it is those loose screws that have provided some of Afghanistan's most treasured moments. Batsman Mohammad Shahzad's ferocious burst against South Africa was, in many ways, typical of one of world cricket's most mercurial talents: a slightly portly batsman-keeper with a penchant for outrageous timing and quotes. "I was not happy that Dale Steyn was not playing," he said after Sunday's match. "I love playing Dale Steyn because Dale Steyn is not dangerous."They are no longer minnows. They are the game's gathering storm, and though they are yet to beat a top-eight nation, it is becoming a question of when rather than if.Back in Afghanistan, the team's success has united a country riven by tribal warfare, scarred by brutality and multiple invasions. Sponsorship money has flown into the sport.According to Tim Wigmore's book Second XI: Cricket in its Outposts, there are now about 500 cricket clubs in a country that didn't even have an organised federation until 1995.The domestic Twenty20 competition, the Etisalat Sixes, attracts capacity crowds and TV audiences of millions.bbc.com and the Daily Telegraph, London