Klopp was as one with the Kop this week as a roar of approval for Jon Flanagan's crunching tackle on Raheem Sterling, his friend and former teammate, provided a rousing overture to a 3-0 win over Manchester City, and the manager is happy to add such physicality to the mix."Angriness in a sport is good," said Klopp, who can avenge an unwarranted defeat today in his first game in charge at Anfield in November. "Against Crystal Palace, there is a reason to strike back. We should not have lost that game. There are a lot of reasons to be angry. Spurs let 10-man Gunners off the hook in thriller"Crystal Palace were a really physical side. They will give you, in the first two minutes, 500 reasons to be angry."We need physicality. You can't go to Crystal Palace and say 'we will play a little bit of football'. I hope we will be like that in future. I really believe in this team. We have to be angry."Klopp has yet to decide whether fullback Flanagan, who was making his first league start since May 2014 due to injury, will figure at Selhurst Park.However, while declining to offer "belief" that his team could yet attain a Champions League qualifying place, Klopp has devised a realistic target for his players that could bear fruit."We can only go in the top four if the others makes mistakes," he said. "We have to do everything right and they have to make mistakes. At this moment, it doesn't look like we can make it. We will all watch the situation with the first three or four to see if it changes."Earlier in the week, Klopp also said he is already planning ahead for next year.He has a list of summer targets he will pursue, but still wants a strong Premier League finish and progress in the Europa League. Champs League threat: Uefa won't stand for it"Yes we are planning for next season. Clearly we plan for next season," said Klopp."We have to wait for the right decision and we have to think about a lot of things."Meanwhile, the former general counsel for Liverpool owners Fenway Sports Group (FSG), Edward Weiss, said they had "underestimated" how poor the squad actually was and were "overconfident" about rebuilding the club they bought in 2010.The admission came during a Supreme Court hearing in New York this week relating to a long-running legal dispute with a US company, suing the club's former co-owner George Gillett jr and the Royal Bank of Scotland.He said: "We were overconfident in assuming that many of the things that we had done in Boston at Fenway [with the baseball franchise Boston Red Sox] would translate naturally to the Premier League, and they just didn't all translate."Since FSG took over the club, Liverpool won the League Cup in 2012, but only finished in the top four of the Premier League once, when they came second in 2014.