It s not just women who are into personal grooming. The male grooming industry has exploded as men become increasingly conscious of their grooming routines, says Jade Kirkel, marketing manager of the Sorbet Group. Since August last year, Sorbet has been rolling out its chain of Sorbet Man stores across South Africa positioned as one-stop grooming shops aimed specifically at men. There are hair salons and barber shops by the plenty, but up until now there s been nowhere for men to get a haircut, a shave, a wax, a massage, a facial, a mani or pedi plus their skincare products in one place, says Kirkel. Sorbet Man, she says, hopes to fill that gap.Manzilians & more: Beauty treatments men aren t shying away fromBut it doesn t end with grooming. As part of an all-encompassing pampering experience, Sorbet Man also includes free brandy tastings in its stores. These tastings are a joint project with Distell, which jumped at the opportunity to expose a new audience to South Africa s finest potstill brandies. Many luxury salons offer their customers a drink with their treatment, and we thought Sorbet Man s clientele would be the right fit to try South Africa s best brandies, says Nick Holdcroft, Distell s brandy ambassador. A well-groomed man is conscious of the image he wishes to portray, and isn t afraid to learn new things to expand his repertoire behind the bar. Our aim was to educate those interested in potstill brandies by getting our product in their hands. The premium brandy sector has shown good growth over the past few years in South Africa, albeit off a small base. However, Nick says that people have started to recognise brandy not just as a mixer, but as a stand-alone drink that can be enjoyed neat, over ice or with a dash of water.Sorbet Man clients will be able to sample brandies including the Van Ryn s 12-year-old (winner of the Best Worldwide Brandy trophy six times since 2004), Klipdrift Gold and Richelieu 10-year-old brandy in the chain s Sandton City (011-784-8650) and Bedfordview branches (010-007-1323). So far, Nick says that the response has been positive, and Distell plans to continue the partnership as long as there is interest from customers and stores. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.