This is the advice midfielder Sibusiso Vilakazi has given to Bafana Bafana, ahead of Saturday's must-win 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier in Limbe against four-time champions Cameroon, who are top of Group M with maximum points in two matches so far.One point in two matches - a goalless draw with Gambia in Durban and a 3-1 hammering by Mauritania in Nouakchott - leaves Bafana with no room for error with four matches to play in the group."The team has to perform, collect maximum points and stay in contention," said Vilakazi is excluded due to injury."The boys know the situation and the coach knows the situation. This might be the last opportunity [to qualify], so it's now or never."We need the right attitude. I hope we can apply ourselves in the right manner and forget about the previous results. [against Gambia and Mauritania]."Vilakazi, a key member of the squad which finished the 2015 Afcon qualifying campaign unbeaten, dribbled his way past a couple of Cameroonian defenders to score a brilliant goal when the sides met in a friendly international early last year.It's that sort of guts and guile, he says, that Bafana need to overcome the physical Indomitable Lions."Sometimes it's about being smart. You cannot contend with them physically. We are quicker, good on the ball and our movement is good. So we should play to our strengths and make sure we're clinical [in front of goal]."The inclusion of Itumeleng Khune has been questioned after the goalkeeper returned to the Kaizer Chiefs starting line-up just over a week ago having last featured on January 30.But Vilakazi supports the inclusion of Khune, whom he says can lift teammates' spirits on the pitch."Khune has been around. He can give you a result and give the guys confidence. I put my hand up and say he's one person who will give 100%."Dean Furman, left out of the team for the first time since Mashaba took over, has no hard feelings about his exclusion.He's more concerned about the team qualifying for major tournaments regularly."We must be at major tournaments. It's massive to be there because it lifts the nation. We don't want the disappointment of missing out."It's been a disappointing start in the qualifiers, but it's not over. We are facing a Cameroon team that has top players in top leagues. They won't be pushovers, but it's about getting points for us, it does not matter how." Bafana have impressed away from home, losing only one of five qualifiers in both Afcon and 2018 World Cup qualifiers - since Mashaba took over."The atmosphere away is intimidating and pitches are not always the best. But we have had some terrific performances away from home and I hope the boys can be at their best," said Furman.Cameroon have taken a big risk hiring a new coach - Hugo Broos - even after two wins in as many matches in the qualifiers. It's a big test for Broos, who is taking charge of a national team for the first time in his career, but Furman says Bafana should not concern themselves about what happens in the opposition camp."It won't affect Bafana. That's for Cameroon to worry about. We have to be fully focused rather than worry about that."Bafana, who assemble for camp in Johannesburg today, leave for Limbe on Thursday.sports@timesmedia.co.za