No fewer than 17 of the available 30 days in which the Proteas were on view at home this season were sold out.Of course the deployment of the Barmy Army to our shores contributed richly to getting so many bums on seats. However, reminded Cricket SA's head of commercial Clive Eksteen, "we had a lot of local support for the limited-overs matches".The best attended venues followed a fairly predictable path.Four days of the Newlands test were sold out, two at the Wanderers before the game took a dramatic turn, while SuperSport Park was filled on one day of the test there. Naturally the limited-overs formats were enthusiastically supported. At all five ODIs against England the sold-out signs went up and it was repeated in the two T20s as well the three against Australia.In anticipation of the alacrity with which England supporters hop onto planes, the tour itinerary was announced early."The big matches were played in the big stadiums," said Eksteen. "We really looked hard at how we could improve the stadium experience. Transport and parking are potential turn-offs for fans and we addressed both. Striking up a partnership with Uber helped a lot."Fans were able to print tickets prior to arriving at the ground, thus avoiding long queues.The stadium experience was improved with the introduction of a food and beverage app which sees your order delivered to your seat. CSA also listed allowing spectators onto the field, as well as designated family areas and "chill zones" as contributing factors."Fans want cold beer and a warm hot dog but they have other needs. Toilets were upgraded because that is a potential turn-off," said Eksteen.Some of the venues underwent structural and cosmetic changes to accommodate the influx. At Newlands, scaffolding was erected for extra seats at the Kelvin Grove End for sun-worshipping fans, while the Wanderers did exactly the opposite by losing a few seats to accommodate a chill zone.With bigger crowds, however, comes the unavoidable need for greater vigilance. The sale of counterfeit tickets has become a greater reality, particularly in Johannesburg. "Inside and outside the stadiums people take chances," Eksteen noted.Overall, however, the former test slow bowler is hoping they can bottle their recipe and continue to draw huge numbers when New Zealand (in August) and Sri Lanka (at the end of the year) visit our shores."What has been particularly pleasing is the diversity we see in our crowds. They're young, old, male, female and from lots of different cultures."