Talking and cooking is something that comes very easily to Natasha Sideris, the name behind the successful Tashas brand. "We have 14 cafes in total, including one in Dubai with plans to expand further in the Middle East, UK and Australia," she said.In the Tashas test kitchen in Atholl, Johannesburg, she magically tosses tomatoes, red onion, cucumbers and peppers together for a Greek salad (no lettuce), drizzles over olive oil, a splash of wine vinegar and a sprinkling of Maldon salt. The salt, she says, releases some juice from the tomatoes. Lifting the ingredients between her fingers to blend the flavours, she finishes it off with a slab - never blocks - of best quality feta cheese, a splash of olive oil and a light sprinkling of dried oregano. It's a work of art.</img>Natasha Sideris. Image: Christoph HoffmannNatasha Sideris. Image: Christoph Hoffmann"This is how we celebrate Easter," she says, whilst making incisions in the lamb with a sharp knife. She gently massages the lemony/herby rub into the meat."This is my dad Harry's recipe," she says proudly. He was a famed chef and restaurateur in his time. "When he made the lamb he always added potatoes to the pan and when they were all sticky and cooked and coated in pan juices, he said that was the chef's treat. In our family the Easter lamb must always be served with roast potatoes - lots of them."With delicious wafts of lamb filling the kitchen, Sideris finishes off the feast by making the tzatziki. Chopping away deftly, she says the tzatziki must be chunky and should be made just before it is needed. Our host won't let the photographer and I leave without sitting down to the feast.Succulent, fall-from-the-bone pieces of tender lamb, topped with dollops of creamy tzatziki; a mountain of crispy roast potatoes to dip into the gorgeous gooey pan juices; grilled pita bread; and to break the richness, the freshness of the Greek salad. Delectable indeed. TRY TASHAS'S EASY EASTER RECIPES HARRY'S SLOW-COOKED ROAST LAMBServes: 4 - 6Difficulty: EasyTime: 3 hours, 30 minutesIngredients:1 leg of lamb on the bone2 large carrots, chopped, or 6 baby carrots, halved lengthways4 fresh thyme sprigs2 bay leaves1 head of garlic, cut in half horizontally1 large onion, cut into quarters375ml (1 cups) hot water plus an extra 250ml (1 cup) hot water250ml (1 cup) red wine15ml (1 tbsp) beef stock powder5 crowd-pleasing lamb dishes perfect for entertainingRub:60ml (4 tbsp) olive oil15ml (1 tbsp) salt15ml (1tbsp) freshly ground black pepperZest and juice of 2 lemons15ml (1 tbsp) dried thymeSprigs of fresh rosemaryMethod:1) Combine all the ingredients for the rub except the rosemary sprigs in a mixing bowl and blend well together.2) Using a sharp knife make 10 incisions all over the top of the lamb. Place lamb in a roasting pan and massage the rub all over the lamb. Insert sprigs of rosemary into the incisions so that they stand a little proud of the meat. 3) Add the carrots, thyme, bay leaves, garlic halves (cut side up) and onion quarters to the pan. Pour the 375ml hot water and red wine around the meat. Cover with tin foil, shiny side in, and roast at 180 for 2 hours. 4) After 2 hours remove the lamb from the oven and add the 250ml hot water with the stock powder dissolved in it. Cover with foil and return to the oven for another 1 hour until tender. CHUNKY TZATZIKIServes: 4Difficulty: EasyTime: 15 minutesTo make: Peel, seed and slice half a cucumber and combine with 5ml (1 tsp) dried oregano, 2 cloves of crushed garlic and a handful of chopped fresh dill. Add 240g plain Greek yoghurt, season with salt and pepper, and drizzle over olive oil. Serve immediately. GREEK SALADServes: 4Difficulty: EasyTime: 15 minutesTo make: Peel, seed and slice 1 cucumber and combine in a serving bowl with 4 tomatoes, cut into chunks, half a red onion and half a green pepper, thinly sliced. Add 60ml (4tbsp) olive oil, 5ml (1 tsp) dried oregano and 60ml (4 tbsp) red-wine vinegar. Toss to mix and season with salt and pepper. Top with an 80g slice of feta, halved horizontally, a drizzle of olive oil and a sprinkling of dried oregano. A taste of Tashas: 5 divine cafe-style recipes ROAST POTATOESServes: 4Difficulty: EasyTime: 60 minutesTo make: Peel and cut 6 potatoes into wedges and place in a roasting pan. Add 30ml (2 tbsp) olive oil, sprinkle over salt and toss. Roast at 180 C for 30-40 minutes until golden brown and crispy. ROASTED BABY BEETROOTServes: 4Difficulty: EasyTime: 35 minutesTo make: Toss together 8 baby beetroots, a splash of olive oil and balsamic vinegar in a roasting pan. Season with salt and pepper and roast at 180 C for 30 minutes or until just tender.