South African soil holds a special place in Emilio Butrague o's heart."Johannesburg, especially, holds a special place in the history of Spanish football," says Butrague o, whose face lights up as he recalls the country's finest hour under the Jozi skyline.The former Real Madrid striker and now a director at the club was among the 96000 spectators who crammed into the Calabash - FNB Stadium - when an Andr s Iniesta extra-time strike secured Spain's maiden Fifa World Cup on July 11 2010.Butrague o, 52, was back in town this week and we talked about Cristiano Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane, Pep Guardiola and all things football.His tall, lithe figure belies the fact that the scorer of 123 goals in 341 games over 11 seasons for Los Blancos called time on his career in 1998 after moving to Celaya, the Mexican club for which he scored 29 times in 91 matches.Fit as a fiddle Butrague o is, but his beloved Real are not in their best state of fitness, at least according to Ronaldo.Following a 1-0 defeat at the feet of city rivals Atletico Madrid a fortnight ago, the Portugal international launched a blistering tirade on his teammates, saying: "If they were in the same level as me, Real would be number one in the log table"."Ronaldo is the real deal for us, he is a great teammate," Butrague o declares. "I must underline or stress that he's an incredible professional who plays at his best in every game. He sets an example for all of us.</img>EFA Champions League Round of 16 Second Leg - Santiago Bernabeu stadium, Madrid, Spain - 8/3/16 Real Madrid's Cristiano Ronaldo reacts. Image: REUTERS Susana VeraEFA Champions League Round of 16 Second Leg - Santiago Bernabeu stadium, Madrid, Spain - 8/3/16 Real Madrid's Cristiano Ronaldo reacts. Image: REUTERS Susana Vera"It's an honour to have him in our team. He's so important for us. Cristiano has been with us for 350 games, 350 goals - one goal per game. It's incredible. We have to take advantage of him."One thing Real took advantage of was the presence of their favourite French connection, Zinedine Zidane, when club president Florentino Perez's quick finger jettisoned Rafael Benitez in January after just seven months in charge.When he installed Zidane to take charge until the end of the season, Perez told him at a press conference: "This is your club, this is your stadium. And you have all our support. From this moment, you are the trainer of Madrid. I know that the word 'impossible' does not exist for you."When Benitez was fired, Real were third on the log, four points behind archrivals Barcelona after 18 games.At the time of writing, 28 games later, the gap had increased to 12.In spite of the impossibility of catching up to Barca, Butrague o's belief in 1998 World Cup winner Zidane remains unshaken."He's an idol for our fans and a great, great person. Of course we will like it if Zidane wins many titles with us."He has been working for our club several years, beginning as assistant to [Jos ] Mourinho. He worked with Carlo Ancelotti when we won the Champions League [for a record 10th time]."After that, he was coach of the second team. So he knows the club very well."He's doing a good job so far; not so easy taking over in the middle of the season. The most important part of the season is coming and we are hopeful of what the future holds."That important time is the business end of the Champions League, something Madrid must win if Zidane will make good on his "I want to ensure that by the end of the season, the club will have a trophy" promise, in his first senior head-coach job.Butrague o believes the embarrassment of riches in terms of talent at Zidane's disposal is capable of adding European title number 11."When you play for Real Madrid every game is important and you have to do your best. We have to win every match."The Champions League draw is coming next Friday. We'll see. Depending on the draw, we're going to do our best to qualify for the semifinal and the final to win this tournament - the most prestigious club competition in the world."It is a special competition for us. We think we have a great squad with top, top players. Without injuries, and with a bit of luck, and some details, we can win it. On paper, we think we have a team to compete at the highest level."A competition of the highest level beckons on the horizon at national team level in the form of Euro 2016 in France in June.</img>Real Madrid's coach Zinedine Zidane reacts during match. Image: REUTERS Juan MedinaReal Madrid's coach Zinedine Zidane reacts during match. Image: REUTERS Juan MedinaCapped 69 times with 26 goals for his country - five as joint top goalscorer with Diego Maradona and Careca of Brazil at the 1986 Mexico World Cup - Butrague o expresses cautious optimism that Spain will atone for the disastrous first round dismissal at the 2014 Brazil World Cup."We know how difficult this is. Of course, France are playing at home. They have a very strong team. I think they are favourites."We have to qualify for the next round. Our group is not going to be easy."La Roja are in Group D with clashes against Czech Republic (June 13), Turkey (June 17) and Croatia (June 21) for coach Vicente Del Bosque to navigate.The tournament comes at the end of the season. Players would have played many games with a lot of pressure."However, we have players with a lot of talent, I'm quite confident we can do something great. But we will see."In England, on the blue side of Manchester at least, the expectation is for something magical to happen with the imminent arrival of Guardiola to take charge of City, where he will link up with former Barcelona colleagues Rodolfo Borrell (global technical director), Txiki Begiristain (director of football) and (chief executive) Ferran Soriano."He's going to work in a very comfortable atmosphere with people he knows from Barcelona. He is a great coach, very good. I'm sure they will buy important players at City.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za