Despite their poor results over the last two years, the general sentiment here among rugby aficionados is that the enduring rivalry between the All Blacks and the Springboks remains strong.The Springboks have however lost to Ireland, Japan, Australia, Wales, Argentina and the All Blacks in that period, giving rise to the fear that they are in the throes of losing their place among the game s elite.Their rivalry with the All Blacks has also been brought into question. Before yesterday s game, the All Blacks boasted 53 wins from 91 meetings against the Springboks. Before yesterday, the All Blacks had won 11 of their last 13 clashes against the Boks. Bok coach Allister Coetzee takes a long, hard look at the futureTwo former All Blacks coaches, Laurie Mains and Graham Henry, were acerbic when they wade into the debate. Mains recently predicted the end of South Africa as a rugby superpower because of the racial quota enforced by SA Rugby.Henry this week labelled the Wallabies and the Springboks as woeful after their clash in Brisbane. South Africa have probably lost most of their tests over the last three years, he said.The current crop of All Blacks were more measured in their assessment. For Ardie Savea, it remains a benchmark test. Every team gets up to play the All Blacks. There has always been that rivalry between South Africa and the All Blacks. I think it is still there. I think it is always going to be a fierce rivalry, said former All Blacks prop and Crusaders assistant coach Dave Hewett on the magazine show Breakdown. It will always be a great contest. The other thing that adds a whole lot to it is that there are so many South Africans now living in New Zealand. That is starting to develop into the culture as well and that brings the rivalry right into the public. On the same platform, former wing John Kirwan said the All Blacks have raised the bar and other teams are obliged to follow. They [the All Blacks] are not rebuilding, but they have changed a lot of stuff. The Africans have very good coaching staff, they ll be analysing, digging under every rock to find out what the difference is. We enjoy playing them and they enjoy playing us. Both teams respect each other for what they are and who they are They ll catch up, but they ll have to change stuff. They ll get there pretty quickly because this is international football. While we are setting the standard, we can t relax for a second because they ll chase us, said Kirwan. All Blacks coach Steve Hansen perhaps summed it up best. We fight complacency. Losing hurts, he said. History tells us that regardless of what either nation has been doing prior to a test match, the game is always tough. Both teams have a heck of a lot of pride ... We enjoy playing them and they enjoy playing us. Both teams respect each other for what they are and who they are. Hansen agreed the relationship between the countries was special. In my time, the relationship just got better and better. We ve struck a chord with them. We respect the rugby traditions. As a result of that, I think we ve become quite close. 