We read reports of people who run multistage marathons across deserts and frigid northern climes, losing toe nails and the will to live, and we know their pain, for it is ours too. Surviving the multistage fashion situation lasting a week requires forward planning and a set of survival strategies:Day 1 and 2 are super breezy but by Day 3 the fashion week attendee is hitting a wall. The addled soul needs an extreme infusion of vitamins, minerals, and 11 secret herbs and spices administered directly to the mainline vein. Half an hour with the drip and equilibrium is restored - like magic, really. Energy levels are quite literally boosted and you can face the second half of the week with aplomb. If they really like you, which they obviously do, they will add a shot of something called glutathion to give your skin a small glow to go with the inner equilibrium they have so ably restored. (REVIV SA, revivme.co.za - 072-892-2229) Back to black: SA Fashion Week AW/2017 Runway ReportAfter several days of fashioning, the old face starts to resemble last season's hand-me-down. There is a solution: a short sharp blast of intense light to the face administered by a super-speedy individual (because let's face it, who has time to dilly-dally when there is fashion to be watched?). Depending on the setting, the restorative effects are immediate and long-lasting - collagen is really good in the long term and brightness of complexion not to be sneezed at over the short term. (Book at Crystal Clear Skin, 011-788-7624)3) Perrier-Jou t Champagne Bubbles are fashion fuel. Want to drive this industry? Supply bubbles - pre-drinks, after-show drinks, between-show drinks; champagne is always, ALWAYS the order of the day. This is the golden lubricant that ensures smooth transitions from show to show and an easy conversational buzz when the chatter seems to be drying up after the 900th Instagram post and tweet has sucked the social life force from even the most avid of fashion commentators.The morning after all the bubbles and fashion overload, it can be hard to make it through a full day at the office. OK, that is an understatement: it is practically impossible until, that is, the much-anticipated box of Chick'n Lick'n Hot Wings with extra hot sauce makes its appearance on the newsroom floor.A perfect coping mechanism, despite the niggling afterthought regarding the impact that the devouring of the chicken wings may have on our ability to fit into our outfits for the rest of the week. Banish the thought instantly. Hot Wings rule!And when it is all over? A brisk engagement with a C Infusion Peel treatment slapped onto the old visage is the only way forward. A mixture of eight selected herbs containing enzymes, minerals and vitamins is massaged into the skin so that we can face the world afresh. After just one treatment, which also works as a great anti-aging treatment (yay) the peel works wonders, putting much-needed pep into our complexions and our step. (www.greenpeel.co.za, 011-325-5849)