The excellent tidings is that Gabadinho Mhango exudes life where it matters most - between the four white lines of the football pitch. The predatory Malawian has proven himself to be the pivotal brains behind the brilliant start Bidvest Wits have had to the 2015/16 campaign.Gavin Hunt's men have made Bidvest Stadium bounce with a trio of tremendous results at their fortress.The Students made short shrift of Sowetans Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates in back-to-back victories, chomping Chiefs 2-1 in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) and chucking Pirates out of the MTN8 quarterfinal by a similar score.It was in the instance of the 3-0 clubbing of Cape Town City that nippy winger Mhango's incisiveness was integral. We created a fairytale. I think it's not finished yetGiving a clear demonstration of his quality in a man-of-the-match display, Mhango chipped in with two assists for Eleazar Rodgers' strike and Elias Pelembe's goal.Mhango then topped it all with a delightful dunk over Shuaib Walters in a devastating first-half destruction of the newbies from the Cape.He would boast more than that one goal had his efforts not been blocked by the woodwork in the goalless draw with Baroka FC and the 1-0 victory away to Polokwane City."I must improve in putting the ball in the net in every training session. With time, that will transform to match day and help the team."Mhango hopes for his sparkling form to spill over to the MTN8 final now that Mamelodi Sundowns have confirmed themselves as Wits' foes for the winner takes all R8-million match set for Mbombela Stadium on Saturday. "We just want to go to Mbombela and win.I need to win my first cup in South Africa. It has been a long time since I played in a final," says the man who last celebrated silverware success when his former club Big Bullets scooped the Presidential Cup in his native country in 2012."It will be a good game against a strong team. It is a final. I can't speak about Sundowns, I want to speak about my team," says Mhango. Well, ride on brother. "You see, we have Pelembe, Rodgers, very experienced players. They encourage me to do well. All the players do. There's a direct football here that I enjoy." All I ever wanted was to be a footballer. My grandfather and father also played. But they didn't get anywhere He enjoys working under Hunt because "he allows us to do anything, as long as we get the goals", Mhango says. He chose Wits over Chiefs."Chiefs were interested. My agent [Mike Makaab] spoke to them. Bobby [Motaung, Chiefs football manager] would send a message. I would just say if you want to know about me just speak to my agent. Sometimes some supporters will get my number and [call to] say come to my team." The 23-year-old is content with his choice."It is a big team for me, more professional team. We fight and work hard for each other. You don't have a position on the ground, you must just play."That versatility is informed by his school background where "I played as a goalkeeper, centreback, sweeper, rightwing and leftwing." The eldest of four children - he has two sisters and a brother - was born in Chiweta, north of Rumphi district."My mom and dad didn't work. All I ever wanted was to be a footballer. My grandfather and father also played. But they didn't get anywhere. Me, I got the chance to go far in football, but I didn't go far in school." Man City, Bayern call all the shotsIn 2008 he quit football and joined a volleyball team. "With volleyball we used to travel to rural parts of the country in 2008. Sometimes I'd play both football and volleyball in one weekend."Mhango came to South Africa for trials with AmaZulu after his homeboy, former Chiefs captain and current Cape Town All Stars coach Patrick Mabedi, hooked him up with Makaab."They [AmaZulu] said 'we don't know this player, he is new, we can't waste money on someone we don't know'. Celtic came. After two weeks they released me. I went to Free State Stars and trained for just one day.I didn't like the place, Bethlehem. I went back to Blantyre." Celtic renewed their interest and brought Mhango back from Blantyre in 2013. The relationship ended on a sour note when Mhango signed a pre-contract with Wits."The boss Max Tshabalala said I must just go. Wits loaned me to [Lamontville Golden] Arrows. It was easy to go there. I know coach Clinton Larsen, he signed me for Celtic."Unlike many of his colleagues, "I don't like tattoos. Maybe I can say because I'm dark. I told myself that tattoo is not for me." He hopes the final will be for him.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za