1) CAPE TOWN THEATREUbuze BamVarious venues, until October 5Designed by Kabelo Chalatsane and directed by Thando Doni, Ubuze Bam is the stories of four young men who are ex-offenders. The title means "my nakedness". Bongani Dyalivana, Eric Menyo, Lazola Sikhutshwa and Ntsika Tyalana take the audience on a journey that is emotional and vulnerable as they lay bare different prison experiences. capetownfringe.co.za. Call 0860-002-004. Tickets R60. Visit theatreartse.co.za for more information2) JOBURG MUSICJapanese FestivalLinder Auditorium, September 30Catch world-renowned Japanese jazz trumpeter Terumasa Hino, accompanied by his quintet and the female Japanese Taiko drumming group Himiko in a festival that seeks to promote cultural understanding between South Africa and Japan. Computicket R60/R100. See the show in Cape Town at the ICC on October 3.3) MAGALIESBERG CLASSICALClassics NowNIROX Sculpture Park, Cradle of Humankind, October 1Legendary string maestros the Soweto String Quartet join pianist extraordinaire Ad le Str mbeck, the brass Phax Trio, clarinetist Junnan Sun and the Bella Voce Africa choir. Gates open at 10am. Tickets R300-R320. Children under 12 pay half. Under-twos free. No food, drinks or pets through the gate. Info and tickets at classicsnow.org4) CAPE TOWN ROCKKaren ZoidArtscape Opera Theatre, September 27The Queen of Rock's electric energy and diverse voice will take you on a journey featuring some of her unforgettable English and Afrikaans hits through the years - songs such as Afrikaners is Plesierig, Engel, Small Room, Aeroplane Jane and Want as Ek Droom, among many others.Tickets R160-R180 from Computicket5) JOBURG ARTThe Brother Moves OnGoodman Gallery, until October 8The malleability of contemporary black traditions is at the core of The Brother Moves On collective's first "solo" exhibition, Hlabelela, It's a New Mourning Nkush, which questions each member's personal histories and beliefs and, say the artists, asks "whether there really is a space for our traditions and experiences in the art world". See Goodman-gallery.com for gallery times.