This is the Manchester City we expected when millions were invested to build a dream team. The referee's whistle is like a starting pistol, the City attackers zig-zagging in 100m sprints.Borussia M nchengladbach's defenders must have been in treatment for stiff necks after this week's Champions League encounter, so often were they compelled to check and double check who was advancing beyond them.Pellegrini gave the impression he picked a team of world-class players and let them get on with it. There was no discernible pattern or style. There is a definitive City way already under Guardiola. Dan's got Chippa dancing to his tuneEvery time his players do not have the ball, he stands on the touchline pining for a long-lost son. The Germans are not a poor side, but were fortunate to only find themselves two down at half time.One game is all it has needed.Celtic know it. Borussia know it. City and Barcelona will progress. The only issue to resolve is who goes through as group winners, and whether Brendan Rodgers can somehow claim the consolation of a Europa League place after the Catalans' lethal MSN - Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez and Neymar - dissected Celtic 7-0.Considering the new format of the draw in this competition was expected to make the groups far more competitive, in this instance it has made them more clear cut. There is a serious gulf in class between the top two so far.The group stages may have a serious issue sustaining interest or creating drama by the final match days.Nevertheless, the head-to-head between City and Barcelona will offer the clearest indication on how far Guardiola's new charges can go.At least the reunion at this stage means there is no chance of them meeting in the last 16. As for the competition, for the neutrals it's only going to get interesting in the knockout stage.Guardiola appealed to City's fans to create a vibrant atmosphere, but their relationship with this competition remains as tempestuous as those dark skies that forced Tuesday night's abandonment.The Etihad was far from full - partially no doubt because of the short-notice rearrangement - but also because the love for anything with Uefa branding is not there. The top tier of the South Stand - only constructed last season - was not even open. It makes for a curious setting for a European game.If anyone can change that it is Guardiola.Even if City's fans remain apathetic about Europe, they are going to enjoy the football far more than before. Win or lose, Liverpool remain a fun team to watchThe only way City will ever hold this competition dear is by creating memorable moments, reference points and historic occasions they'll seek to repeat.They have not had any of them yet, but they can't be far away. Should Guardiola lead City to victory in Europe, the party atmosphere that became more noticeable in the second half will continue.Sergio Ag ero must be the favourite for the golden boot. He has to be man-of-the match for his hat-trick performances, but he will be the first to acknowledge the contribution of those around him.Kevin de Bruyne is the reason no-one is talking about the ostracising of Yaya Tour . The Belgian links the midfield and attack, but he's also the most unselfish of footballers.Borussia were unable to cope with City's fluid midfield, and also struggled to create clear-cut chances. To their credit, they kept believing they could get something from the game, but it should have been a mauling to resemble the Nou Camp on Tuesday night.-The Daily Telegraph, London