 The players know there will be repercussions, said Coetzee. We have to decide if there is a better player to bring in. We have to ask whether there are players who can do a better job, then we can make changes. If there aren t better players then we will have to continue with these players and make sure that we get it right. He should also look at the coaching staff. He lamented his team s defence while the need for a kicking coach is all too apparent.Costly errors again blighted their performance that showed initial promise, but petered out in the second half as the World Champion All Blacks asserted their dominance. EP Kings easy meat for the Sharks It is obviously very disappointing, the amount of basic errors we made, sighed Coetzee. There were a lot of positives as well, especially the way we applied pressure in the first half when we scored a great try.But then we let them in. It was a soft moment and in the second try we were indecisive on our exit. They are clinical. We need a lot of work on our defence, said Coetzee, whose team conceded six tries, four of which were avoidable.Those positives he spoke of will be cold comfort to Bok fans. These are things we can fix, the coach said optimistically. I m still positive about the team going forward. Strauss said there were times in the first half he felt his team was in control.They did string together some patient attacks but that happened all too fleetingly. We knew at half time we had one or two soft moments. The rest of the time it felt like a test against the All Blacks. We felt in it and we were positive. You also have to give the All Blacks credit for using the width of the field. They ran good lines and they asked a lot of questions of us. We couldn t respond to that. We are far from our best and far from where we can be. What sets the All Blacks apart is fastidious adherence to the basics. It lies at the core of what makes them such redoubtable opponents.All Blacks coach Steve Hansen lauded his team s effort in the primary phases. Our set piece has been outstanding the whole season. We lost just one throw and it was an overthrow. The scrum has been outstanding. The Boks were struggling to plug all the holes and the All Blacks much-vaunted bench again stretched the opposition We try and play a game that we are proud of and to not get away from core roles. We just have to keep asking ourselves to get better every day. With the Rugby Championship now a race for the minor placings, Hansen can contemplate resting players in their last two matches. Coetzee also has to ponder his selections, but for different reasons.In a city still scarred by the devastating earthquake in 2011 the Boks again displayed all the fault lines that dogged them against the Wallabies in Brisbane last week.All that imprecision followed them across the Tasman Sea. By contrast the All Blacks look better assembled, organised and conditioned.With the All Blacks already in the ascendancy thanks to a superior kicking game, the Boks yesterday courted trouble by not applying due care and diligence in possession. Aussies surge out of the blocks to outpace Los PumasThe crowd was still stunned and the Boks in a mild state of euphoria following Bryan Habana s converted try in the 19th minute when Elton Jantjies inexplicably dropped the kick-in close to the Bok tryline.From the resultant scrum Israel Dagg scored.Six minutes later Johan Goosen thought it prudent to throw a speculative pass around the Bok 22.From another scrum the All Blacks advanced, allowing Julian Savea to apply the finishing touch. The Boks were struggling to plug all the holes and the All Blacks much-vaunted bench again stretched the opposition.Sam Whitelock scored in the corner with 15 minutes to go as the Boks ran out of defenders.At that point the visitors were potentially looking down the barrel of a 50-pointer but they were thankfully spared that embarrassment.SCORERS:New Zealand 41 Tries: Israel Dagg, Julian Savea, Ben Smith,,Ardie Savea,Samuel Whitelock, TJ Perenara. Conversions: Beauden Barrett (4). Penalty: Barrett.South Africa 13 Try: Bryan Habana. Conversion: Elton Jantjies. Penalties: Jantjies (2).sports@timesmedia.co.za