1) JOBURG THEATREUbu and the Truth CommissionMarket Theatre, until Sept 11This collaboration between William Kentridge and the Handspring Puppet Company mixes puppetry, performance, music, animation and documentary in a show that combines the Truth and Reconciliation Commission with a character created by French playwright Alfred Jarry, Ubu Roi. Here Ubu is a policeman for whom torture, sex and food are all variations of a single gross appetite. R90-R200 Computicket.2) JOBURG ARTCurator Creator/Creator CuratorAbsa Gallery, 161 Main Street Until September 23"A collection of incredibly powerful yet accessible work" is how curator Lucia Boer describes this show. Featuring 22 current South African artists, the exhibition is a mixture of new and existing creations that Boer says in some way reflect the theme of the title. For more information you can visit lateliercompetition.com Local events to kickstart heritage month3) PORT ELIZABETH COMEDYBarry Hilton Evolver TourThe Boardwalk Amphitheatre, September 9 &amp; 10Evolver takes Hilton's hysterical stand-up to the next level. With sets that are never vulgar, malicious nor mean of spirit, but always funny, Hilton is known to several generations as a gentleman comic and a master craftsman with flawless timing, an unpredictable hairline and a gaze that doesn't miss a thing. R150 at Computicket. Over-18s only.4) CAPE TOWN BOOKSOpen Book FestivalVarious venues, September 7-11This is the sixth Open Book Festival, which has more than 100 events featuring a mix of South African and international writers: panel discussions, workshops, masterclasses, readings, performances and more, designed to inspire, stimulate and entertain audiences. Most events are R45. Book at www.webtickets.co.za. For the full programme, go to www.openbookfestival.co.za5) JOBURG CULTURESeptember Jive - A Tribute to SA Musical HeritageAlliance Fran aise, 17 Lower Park Drive, Parkview Until September 30Join the conversation about the diversity and history that make South Africa such a rich musical country. September Jive's exhibitions, panel discussions, screenings and talks promote our musical heritage from a musicological, historical and visual perspective. See the full programme at www.alliance.org.za/pages/event-calendar. All events are free.