An art and design hub, the impressive building was created by StudioMAS, architects of the neighbouring, iconic Circa gallery. Recently opened to the public, it is a mecca for the aesthete, with high-end design stores, art galleries, restaurants, coffee shops and fashion stores.These are our five top picks at the Trumpet on Keyes building:Top chef David Higgs new 220-seater restaurant is a coup for the South African dining scene. Taking up the roof of the building, its glass fa ade boasts views over the whole of Johannesburg, making for a beyond breathtaking sitting. Add to this David s live-fire theatrical cooking experience, and a no-expense spared interior by Irene Kyriacou, and you have a truly unrivalled dining experience. MESH may be a members only club, but fortunately for the masses, its bar is open to the public. Just one floor down from Marble, it shares the amazing views, and the interiors are spot on, with art and design coming together to create a stylish, elegant setting. Ideal for sundowners for friends, or for members, as a spot to catch up on work, network and host swanky business meetings. Design stalwarts Southern Guild have partnered with art gallery WHATIFTHEWORLD to create a crossover design and art gallery filled with pieces from across the continent. The two genres complement each other beautifully with co-curated exhibitions that are not to be missed. Design darlings Andrea Kleinloog and Megan Hesse of Anatomy Design have opened a flagship store in Trumpet on Keyes. Filled with their own sleek furniture and smalls, as well as high-end products from brands such as Hay Design, it s the ultimate spot to kit out your home or find a special gift for a lucky friend. Kramerville s popular Milk Bar has opened up on Keyes too, making for the ideal spot for a quick meal, coffee or drinks. With its signature quirky d cor, it s a fun addition to the building, adding a touch of whimsy to the sleek and sophisticated centre.It s definitely no mean feat picking only five destinations in this building, so I d suggest you take a couple of hours out to lose yourself in this eye candy of a centre. Trumpet on Keyes, Corner Keyes and Jellicoe Avenue, Rosebank