Zesco striker Jackson Mwanza stunned Sundowns, striking twice after the break in the 54th and 56th minutes.Yesterday s first leg suggested for a while that the caginess of a semifinal, especially one played over two legs, might suit coach Pitso Mosimane s more balanced, tactically cleverer Sundowns, than attack-orientated, defensively suspect Zesco.In the second half, though, a Sundowns side that in the first half had disjointedly contained Zesco fell apart in the face of the Ndola club s pacey attack, and Mwanza s strikes. Dan's got Chippa dancing to his tuneBut the Champions League is about guts and the ability to fight back.Billiat s strike a crucial away goal has left the advantage perhaps even to the Brazilians in the second leg at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Saturday.Sundowns had no surprises in their starting lineup.Siyanda Zwane, Thabo Nthethe, Wayne Arendse and Tebogo Langerman started in defence in front of Denis Onyango. Hlompho Kekana and Tiyani Mabunda in central midfield.Billiat led the line in the absence of injured Leonardo Castro, with Percy Tau behind him. Keagan Dolly and Themba Zwane ran on the wings.That Sundowns have reached this far having lost eight registered Caf players either to transfer or injury leaving them with 17 outfield players speaks volume of their class.Zesco coach George Lwandamina is also in a similar position. Former Jomo Cosmos defender Ayo Oluwafemi was at leftback in a back four that had been frail, conceding nine goals in the group stage.The attack that had scored 24 goals in 12 matches, and 10 in the group phase which Sundowns had to suppress had four-goal winger Clatous Chama suspended.Kenyan Jesse Were and Mwanza, with five goals between them, were upfront. John Ching andu (four goals) was at playmaker and five-goal Democratic Republic of Congo striker Idris Mbombo on the bench.The match was played in uncomfortable though not overbearing heat, the temperature cooling from about 30 C from kickoff.To Downs advantage, too, peaceful mining town Ndola, its modern stadium with a well-grassed pitch, and hospitable Zambians must make this one of the most accommodating Champions League venues to visit.Zesco knelt in a huddle in prayer before kick-off. They came out with their much-vaunted attack picking holes almost at will, causing problems down Sundowns left side. Pep Guardiola is in a class of his ownWere was through on Onyango in the ninth minute, the Downs keeper excellently using his feet in a timed challenge to dispossess the striker.Downs settled. Tau scythed through and laid off for Nthethe to cross and find Billiat free, who miscued his volley. Tiyani Mabunda forced a save from Zesco s Jacob Banda.It was a resounding return from the change rooms for Zesco. Eight minutes in, leftback Simon Silwimba made ground down the flank and crossed as Mwanza rose to direct a perfect header past Onyango.Two minutes later, as Zesco had a free kick 30m out to the left, Mwanza hit a speculative drive through the legs of the Sundowns defenders, as Onyango remained rooted and the shot snuck in at the left upright.It was a soft second the men from Pretoria could scarcely afford. And nor did they need Tau to sky a volley steaming through on the left of Zesco s area.With Sundowns down and out, Dolly broke superbly from his own half, fed substitute Anthony Laffor down the right whose cross fell at the feet of Billiat with it all to do, finishing in off the left post.