Colour defines so much of our world yet we seldom think about why we gravitate towards the hues that we do. There are teams of experts the world over analysing trends, conducting research and putting together predictions of where colour will take us in the year ahead.Locally, Plascon dominates this space with their highly anticipated Colour Forecast.The annual publication delves into current trends, while creating practical ways for consumers to bring these into their own spaces.Check out these awesome treats from the design supermarketPlascon usually creates four themes through which to share their colour palettes, and these are brought to life through beautifully styled images accompanied by DIY tips and tricks for readers.Anne Roselt is Plascon's Global Colour Manager and has been the driving force behind the forecast since its inception. "Every year we travel around the globe in search of the latest colour trends and share them with our customers," she says. "We want to help people bring trend inspiration to life in their homes."Roselt says this year's themes are influenced by the attraction we feel for both the digital and the natural worlds. "This seemingly contradictory pair is a metaphor for who we are as people at the moment. Our inspiration came from the world we feel under our feet and the worlds we create in our minds."Roselt says we're seeing a more minimal approach to interiors. "Not that everything is going back to white, but the use of colour is more pure and single-minded - something we're seeing in bold wall treatments and colour combinations.Plascon annually selects a colour of the year that sums up their forecasts as well as the global design landscape. The 2017 colour, In The Mood, is a clean and sophisticated neutral colour with earthy grey and subtle pink tints. "It captures the 'back to basics' feeling that the world is in at the moment, but is still rich, warm and easy to use." An elegant, neutral look, Pause comprises hushed hues such as feminine blush shades, grey and blue-tinted updates on classic beiges and a luxurious metallic gold accent. Roselt says: 'This sophisticated theme is brought to life through the use of chalky colour treatments for additional texture, as well as faded finishes and colour panels.' Check out these awesome treats from the design supermarket This story is all about stripping back to basics and reacting to how oversaturated our lives feel. The palette combines a lighter blue, green and pink with deep purple, blue, black and metallic-inspired shades. 'Bringing this story to life is all about creating an atmospheric feeling with colour,' says Roselt. 'We're seeing a weightless use of colour for a minimal simplicity and interest being created with d cor techniques like two-toned walls to ground spaces.' An earthy theme inspired by desert landscapes, Terrain is made up of oranges and yellows balanced by warm neutrals and a mineral green and blue duo. 'The trick to using Terrain in a space is to be sparing with the yellow and orange most of the time,' says Roselt. 'Concentrate on the greys and neutrals first to provide a subtle backdrop and then use the other colours as a more energetic accent.' Meet Country Road's buyer, Bruce Summers Inspired by digital art, this is the boldest of the four stories, and sees layers of colour being used to create a sense of depth. 'There's nothing serious about this story,' says Roselt, 'it's all about having fun with interiors'. This theme sees bands of colour, prism-inspired and scattered geometric effects on walls. 'The trick is to be bold with colour but to remember to contrast the deeper colours with the lighter ones for a fresh, contemporary feeling.'For more information and d cor advice, visit www.plascon.co.za