Manchester United, the manager said, would be substantially inconvenienced by participation in the Europa League. Its Thursday/Sunday timetable, he insisted, would undermine their competitive ability to challenge for the Premier League title.He says he will return to the normal team for the Premier League clash against Watford today after a surprise 1-0 defeat to Feyenoord.The 53-year-old Portuguese made a host of changes for the trip to Rotterdam, resting the likes of club captain Wayne Rooney, Antonio Valencia and Luke Shaw, but his star-studded side were defeated in a lacklustre display. The former Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid boss will be eager to bounce back from his second straight loss this season at Watford. It is obvious that we left players like [Antonio] Valencia and [Luke] Shaw at home to play and to rest so we go back to a normal team without so many changes, Mourinho said.Mourinho started with forwards Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial, while record signing Paul Pogba retained a spot in the lineup. Look, I don t want to personalise. Some of the players were playing their first minutes of the season, Mourinho said. Obviously some played better than others but I have to understand that some of these players haven t played week after week like others. The second half was better than the first. We had more intensity than the first half because in the first my players were in control without pushing but the second was different. Feyenoord defended with everything, a great crowd, a great spirit, we know that. There are plenty of reasons why any club would not want to be in the Europa League.Mourinho is right to regard it with his nose held. It is a largely second- rate nonsense of a trophy, its principal aim seemingly to give continued European participation after Christmas to teams unable to make the grade in the Champions League.But whatever it is, its timetable is not the issue. As excuses go the suggestion that its rhythms are peculiarly corrosive is among the most fanciful in sport.With the time between matches no greater there is absolutely no reason why Thursday/Sunday should be more debilitating than the Wednesday/Saturday pattern demanded by Champions League participation.And Mourinho would be the last to rail against that competition s requirements. Yet it has become received wisdom that the Europa League is singularly demanding.What seems more surprising than the feebleness of the excuse, however, is that a manager as sophisticated as Mourinho would embrace such a line of thinking. Football retains its habit of fetishising the excuse. This week, the blame for Tottenham s defeat by AS Monaco was put by many though not, to his credit, the manager Mauricio Pochettino on the venue.It was all down to Wembley.ITV pundit Lee Dixon insisted that when he had played for Arsenal in European matches at the national stadium while the Emirates was being built, the unintended consequence was it had inspired the opposition while undermining the home side. Which made no sense at all.Why would playing at an internationally renowned venue collectively motivate one team while uniformly unnerving the other? Surely both should be lifted.But the excuse has proliferated to the extent it has become a superstition: it is rapidly becoming a matter of football lore that any club temporarily using Wembley as its home for European nights is doomed to failure.And so is the Thursday/Sunday line. Mourinho, a manager who rightly prides himself on the thoroughness of his preparation, has already provided his players with a get-out clause should they lose at Watford at lunchtime today.