Munching Mongoose supports and partners with small-scale local producers. On a weekly basis we put together a box of fresh, seasonal, locally and organically grown produce and gourmet artisan products which we deliver to our customers' homes.Mongooses are cute animals and will forage and fuss until they have the meal that they want. We thought it was a neat tie-in and would appeal to families, while differentiating us from others in the arena of natural and whole foods. Who doesn't love a little mongoose?We are different from other vegetable box schemes because it's not just a veg box but a complete "staples" box. Our offering caters to most basic grocery needs and includes organically grown fruit and veg, farm-fresh milk, local gourmet cheese, free-range eggs and artisan bread. All the items are of exceptionally high quality and supplied by small-scale producers. Meet the man making spinach into a township empireWe also include surprise artisan and craft products, such as infused honey, loose-leaf tea or hand-crafted boutique chocolates. The service is not pick and choose, as it is about creating a unique weekly experience. Offered on a subscription basis, with no contracts, customers don't have to think about anything - they just receive their weekly goods and enjoy.If we support local small-scale producers we can create a shift in the entire food supply value chain. Set up properly, small-scale farms can support their communities, and in unison can cater to most of the food needs of our country.Winning the Small Business Awards with Radio 702 and Sage One has been an amazing experience and an opportunity to increase awareness of the company. This exposure will hopefully allow us to increase our reach. While we know we will always need to improve, the recognition is some degree of affirmation that at least we aren't too far off the mark.The most exciting thing about the artisan and craft gourmet industry in South Africa is just how many producers there are and how truly incredible their products are. The creativity and diversity are so exciting.With organic produce not fully legislated in South Africa there are many people jumping on the bandwagon, so there is a need to be cautious when sourcing top-quality organic produce.www.munchingmongoose.co.za