"It [life] changed a lot because when you win the title in the manner Leicester won the title it changes completely," he says."I don't have one second free and too many times I said, 'No, thank you' because I already said 'Yes' so many times. But that's it! I hope also next season it will be the same."One of the small army of PR people tells me they noticed from pictures of last season that Ranieri always wore one of their clients watches (Tag Heuer) through choice, long before he scored this summer's endorsement. How Zidane turned Real around There, in a nutshell, is the difference winning the most miraculous Premier League title in history can make: suddenly you get paid.Ranieri says his whole philosophy of life is that what happened yesterday is forgotten today and to that end he is already over the 4-2 extra-time defeat by Antonio Conte's Chelsea.Perhaps that is the only way to deal with the highs and lows of 30 years in management and 16 jobs, including two difficult years at Juventus up against Jose Mourinho in his time as Inter Milan manager.Does Ranieri like his new life, where he is treated more like a celebrity manager? "I love it. I am a lucky man because when I was young I wanted to be a footballer. Suddenly around 30 years old I thought, 'I want to try to be a manager because it's different'.The players believe they understand football but it is another job. Completely. Completely. One thing is when you are on the pitch and another job when you are off it."He says that the title has not changed him and it is interesting to hear him say last season's astonishing success was not the defining achievement of his management years."For me, when someone says this is the biggest achievement in my career I say, 'Yes', because never have I won a [top-flight] title. But I think the best achievement is Cagliari [from 1988 to 1991], because I started from the amateurs. Collymore: Young guns are being milked"I had jobs at Campania Puteolana and then Vigor Lamezia [both non-league teams] and then I went to Cagliari when in three years we went from Serie C1, to Serie B and to Serie A. From the amateur leagues - pow! - we went up. Without Cagliari, I wouldn't be here."He had a busy summer of appointments and awards in this country, as well as Italy, where there were a couple of ceremonies he could not miss. He was awarded the civic honour of the Grande Ufficiale Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana, a kind of Italian knighthood.He was also the recipient of the Enzo Bearzot award for the best Italian coach of the year, for which, given the standard of Italian managers, there is no little competition.In this parallel world of awards and tributes, what was the best moment? He says it was one he organised himself: standing alongside his friend Andrea Bocelli, the blind tenor, while he sang at the King Power at the final home game of the season, an affecting and emotional end to an incredible nine months."Yeah, that was the moment, very good," he says. "When I first listened to this song I thought, 'Oh, one day give me a title'. At first there is the thought, the idea.And then you have to work and run and achieve. Maybe sometimes you are on the motorway and you think it can be done - and sometimes you take four hours to get back to London." We are back to the roadworks on the M1, but the point is well made.It took him 30 years to get there, he will be 65 next month and he says that his appetite for football is undimmed. Ranieri says that when signing new players this summer he was very careful not to damage the powerful team spirit he had fostered at Leicester He has worked for some of the biggest, most difficult owners in the game - Jes s Gil, Roman Abramovich, Massimo Moratti - and maybe in the chilled-out Srivaddhanaprabhas at Leicester he finally has the bosses he deserves."I think everyone is the perfect owner," he deadpans. Really? "Yes, they gave me the job and then it's perfect! I am very clear and very honest. I can say one thing and you look at my face and it is clear.If I am angry, I am angry. If I am angry then I have to be calm and to be calm I have to tell you to your face what I think about you. If we don't agree then OK, 'Bye!' It's no problem."His connection with Thai duty-free billionaire Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha seems strong. Either way, Ranieri has made the Leicester owner look a genius for hiring him. "Yes, it's fantastic, he gave to everyone a lot of positive energy. Always a positive man. He trusts me. He's calm. He is positive." THE BRAIN BEHIND WITSRanieri says that when signing new players this summer he was very careful not to damage the powerful team spirit he had fostered at Leicester and made extensive enquiries about the character of new boys such as Islam Slimani and Ahmed Musa.How did he persuade Jamie Vardy to reject Arsenal? "I said to all my players, 'We have created together in Leicester a fairytale. I think the fairytale is not finished. If we stay together we can write something good again'."It is natural that people regard him differently now after what was done last season but Ranieri is insistent: he is not changing."I don't change my face, I don't change my character, I don't change anything."He says that everything he has achieved in his career has been a consequence of him successfully transmitting his philosophy to his players, and last season was no different."I think there was from the beginning a very good link between me and the players. I said to them, 'I want to link your spirit'. When I was a player, I was an English kind of player." He punches his palm twice in quick succession."Bang! Bang! I wasn't a champion, but to kill me you had to work so hard. I took this and [added] my Italian tactics. I said to the players, 'If we link these two very well we can do something good'. And we won the title."