Despite spinning the story that he has always known of Strauss' intentions, Coetzee now has to find a new leader from 2017.He might even consider someone new for the November tour to Britain and Europe.The importance of a captain in rugby is greater than in almost any other sport. It's a role that demands huge character, courage and awareness. Coach's backing, time vital for No10 to prosperFrom managing team dynamics to cajoling referees in the heat of battle, it's tough.The physical effort is one aspect of the job and the skipper needs to lead from the front in a sport that magnifies weaknesses both mental and physical.He needs to be the ultimate alpha male in the most alpha of sports while at the same time being astute enough to manipulate refs and opponents and then deal with media and commercial issues off the field.The level of scrutiny - particularly in South Africa - is huge. Family time disappears and the skipper always carries the Springboks results with him. A trip to a supermarket could become an ordeal.Coetzee understands this and is weighing up his options. He mused aloud from Christchurch this week, where the Boks were preparing to take on New Zealand, about potential captains in the coming weeks."Young players now have an excellent chance to put their hand up," Coetzee said. "The important thing for us is to grow the leadership core within the team after the loss of Victor Matfield, Jean de Villiers, Schalk Burger and Fourie du Preez."This year it's very important to build leaders around Adriaan." CANDIDATES Warren Whiteley: Pundit and former Bok coach Nick Mallett has repeatedly said that Whiteley, captain of the Lions, should get the job. The mazy No8 is not a traditional bruising Bok loose forward but more of a playmaker.He is immensely popular with teammates and has been captain of the Lions at both Currie Cup and Super Rugby level. But he doesn't necessarily command his starting berth, especially if Duane Vermeulen is fully fit and available.Duane Vermeulen: The Toulon No8 was Coetzee's initial choice, but his contract with the French club meant he was ineligible. It's an unwritten policy that the Bok captain has to be based in South Africa. Vermeulen is an exceptional no-nonsense leader who prefers pragmatism to flamboyance. He is willing to return to South Africa if the Bok captaincy is still on offer and if he can negotiate a way out of his club contract. Bok coach Allister Coetzee takes a long, hard look at the futureLood de Jager: The giant lock is another who has captaincy experience at Super Rugby level - with the Cheetahs. He is a formidable presence on the field and engaging off it, although he does seem too laid-back for the job at times. Once the whistle goes, De Jager is all business though.Teboho Mohoje: The Cheetahs flank has captained at Currie Cup and Super Rugby level. He is a charming personality, who is well liked and respected by peers and coaches.But at this stage of his career, he can't automatically command his position in the side when the Boks have a full compliment of fit loose forwards to select.Pat Lambie: The flyhalf has been in leadership positions his entire life and it comes naturally to him. Lambie has an unflappable presence and 51 tests worth of experience. But like Mohoje, it's unclear whether he can command a starting place in the side at the moment with both Handr Pollard and Elton Jantjies vying for the No 10 jersey.Handre Pollard: The 22-year-old flyhalf is a natural leader. He has the swagger of someone much older and the supreme confidence that comes with outrageous talent.A knee injury has kept him out this season, but he will be back in 2017. Pollard has captained the Junior Springboks and could be the man around which Coetzee could build a team.