What drew you to leather and how long have you been working with it?My introduction to leather happened by chance while travelling through India in 2011. Remarkably, I twice bumped into a French artisan who financed his travels through India by making and selling simple hand-stitched items.The second time we met I literally turned a corner and walked into him, only to find out he had been robbed of his passport and wallet, and needed help.I had wanted to buy some of his wares, so he came back to my room and made each of my family members a gift for me to take home. I watched what he was doing, asked lots of questions, and on my return bought some hand tools and started teaching myself the craft.Meet the wizard of printmakers, Mark AttwoodHow did you learn the techniques and theory behind your craft?The hard way! I made lots of mistakes, with sore, bloodied fingers, but had fallen in love with the craft and couldn't stop.What is the best thing about working with leather? It is one of the oldest materials humans have utilised, and I think we intrinsically have a deep understanding and appreciation of it. It is strong and durable, incredibly versatile, and has the most beautiful natural aesthetic.What has been your favourite product and why?The first one I ever made. It was a terribly put together pencil case, with loads of imperfections and mistakes, but seeing it complete was one of the most rewarding feelings.How has today's marketplace and mass production affected your craft?The world has changed a lot in the past 60 years and the idea of design obsolescence has begun to run its course. I think the drive to have more things that we don't really care about is being replaced with a "less-is-more" mentality - to essentially buy less, but better.We all crave things we can allow ourselves to fall in love with, things that are going to be there for the long haul and hopefully be passed down from generation to generation.What makes Wolf &amp; Maiden unique?Our hand-stitched focus makes for a more durable and hardy product. It also educates how we design, and how we manufacture, which involves the training and up-skilling of our artisans - we have some of the best around.</img>A shot from Wold & Maiden's campaign. Image: SuppliedA shot from Wold & Maiden's campaign. Image: SuppliedWhat do you find most challenging about running your own business?Being a business owner is rife with the day-to-day stresses and anxieties of maintaining and sustaining a vision, often when all the signs are telling you to turn back. The irony is that it's in these moments of stress and strife that massive breakthroughs take place.And most rewarding?I get to be creative every day in a medium that I am truly passionate about. I also enjoy interacting with all sorts of people from all over the world, and encouraging and up-skilling our local labour force.Find out more about Wolf &amp; Maiden at www.wolfandmaiden.com