Witchery is a brand that is sold in various markets. What are some of the things you consider when thinking about a new collection?No matter what the market or where in the world the Witchery woman is, she wants feminine, modern, fashion-forward pieces for 24/7 style. When thinking about a new collection we always consider who the Witchery woman is and curate the best of the trends to design a collection that is relevant and inspiring to her.Can you tell us about Witchery's latest Spring-Summer '16 collection? What are some of the trend and style influences that we can expect? 5 minutes with Dutch denim brand Scotch & SodaI am so excited about our Spring-Summer '16 collection - it's full of fresh, feminine styles that speak to today's urban warriors. Individuality pulses at the heart of a collection. From the ceremony of dressing up, to the everyday getting ready ritual, this season inspires and empowers on every level.In terms of trends, shirting is key this season and will be the cornerstone of the SS16 wardrobe. It's this season's base to build the perfect outfit around. I'm also looking forward to see lingerie leave the boudoir, with '90s-inspired slip dresses, delicate lace trims and pajama-inspired pieces bridging the gap between day and evening in the warmer months. Drawing on the rebellious energy of fashion from the '90s, there's a juxtaposition of textural excess with streamlined fluidity, teaming the lingerie looks with tuxedo tailoring, street-wear with sequins and ethnic influences with streamlined modernism. The shoulder is the new erogenous zone with off-the-shoulder styles and "cold shoulder" styles in tops, lightweight knits and dresses showing off the d colletage and injecting the new season with a sense of the untamed.Tell us about the face of the campaign, Russian supermodel Anna Selezneva? What makes her the "Witchery woman"?This season we're celebrating the Witchery women who dare to run wild. Strength, spirit and freedom of expression define SS16. Selezneva embodies the spirit of the season and the Witchery woman: a fearless fervour for life and liberty. With elfin, ingenuous features, Selezneva's career includes 10 international Vogue covers and coveted advertising campaigns for the likes of Balmain, Versace and YSL Beauty.What is the creative direction and inspiration behind the shoot?Our team, including Selezneva, shot at the Corrobinnie Depression - an old river system on the southern edge of South Australia. This was the perfect location for our "run wild" theme - the spectacular and sparse landscapes are fit for explorers of the wild.