New Zealand - not even at their best yesterday - sounded a warning that should make the Springboks wake up with cold sweat ahead of their Rugby Championship meeting in Christchurch on Saturday.Losing to an Australian team as anodyne as yesterday's one at the Suncorp Stadium in Brisbane does not bode well for Allister Coetzee's side. But it was probably an accurate reflection of how confused the Boks are mentally and tactically.It takes a special bunch of players to turn an 11-point lead into a sixpoint loss while playing most of the rugby.The Wallabies overcame an early deficit and snapped a run of six successive test defeats. Province come bearing gifts for LionsTries from lock Adam Coleman and centre Bernard Foley, who also chipped in with 13 kicked points, gave the Wallabies a first win since their semifinal victory over Argentina at last year's World Cup."It's been a tough period for us but we're really proud to come out and get a win tonight," said a relieved Australia captain Stephen Moore in a touchline interview."It's always a tough game against the Springboks and they played really well so we're happy with a first win after so many losses." No8 Warren Whiteley and fullback Johan Goosen crossed to give the Springboks an early lead, but the visitors faded after their fast start."We let ourselves down with indiscipline," said South Africa skipper Adriaan Strauss. "We had a great start but the discipline cost us and kept us on the back foot." Australia's first four points of the campaign were not enough to lift them off the bottom of the standings, which New Zealand (15 points) lead from South Africa (6) and Argentina (5) after three wins in their first three matches.Heavy rain earlier in the day made for slippery conditions at Lang Park but South Africa, looking to make amends for a loss to Argentina in their last game, made a more than sure-footed start.Whiteley crashed over from close range to give them a third-minute reward for their early pressure and Goosen's converted score put them 14-3 up after 18 minutes.The second try originated in Australia's first promising attack with Strauss desperately snatching Foley's pass out of the air and flyhalf Elton Jantjies kicking through to leave Goosen with a simple score.Australia, looking solid in the set piece and fluent in attack, gradually worked their way back into the match, however, and scrumhalf Will Genia's lofted pass put Coleman in to score in the corner in the 27th minute.Foley added his second penalty five minutes before half time and his third, which came when Springboks lock Eben Etzebeth was sin-binned for killing the ball, just after the break gave the home side the lead for the first time at 16-14.The Wallabies continued to press and one sustained 18-phase attack ended with Foley cutting through the defensive line to score under the posts.Replacement flyhalf Morn Steyn kicked a penalty to cut Australia's lead to six points with 15 minutes remaining.SCORERSAustralia 23 - Tries: Bernard Foley, Adam Coleman. Conversions: Foley (2). Penalties: Foley (3).South Africa 17 - Tries: Warren Whiteley, Johan Goosen. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (2). Penalty: Morn Steyn New Zealand in 2nd half A devastating late surge saw New Zealand pound dogged Argentina in a frenetic Rugby Championship encounter at Waikato Stadium in Hamilton yesterday.The All Blacks scored eight tries to one, but it was not until Ryan Crotty crossed 13 minutes into the second half that they started to gain command.With the score at 24-22, Crotty's try sparked a 33-point spree in the closing 27 minutes. By the end the dominance was clear-cut, but after strolling to victory twice over Australia in the opening rounds of the tournament, the All Blacks found a more formidable opponent until the Pumas ran out of steam.Julian Savea, Ben Smith and Beauden Barrett scored first-half tries for the All Blacks, who turned with a 24-19 advantage. Ryan Crotty scored twice and Charlie Faumuina, Smith again and Luke Romano touched down in the second half.Argentina held the lead three times in the first spell. The game was less than three minutes old when they scored the opening try, and though they did not cross the All Blacks line again they commanded sufficient territory to land a string of penalties.It was not, however, the power of the Pumas pack that did the damage but their turnovers and smart offloads in an expansive game that stretched the All Blacks.They scored the first try in the second minute when a deft pass from scrumhalf Martin Landajo sent Santiago Cordero away on a 25-metre run to the line. Nicolas Sanchez landed the conversion and kept the scoreboard ticking over with four penalties in the first half.The All Blacks were keen to show they had muscle up front and opted for scrums over close-range penalties early on. It paid dividends with a try to Savea, coming into the line from the blindside wing, after Kieran Read had plucked the ball from the back of a scrum.When the All Blacks slipped behind 13-7, Smith brought them back into the game with his first try after a powerful run by Savea in which the big wing steamrolled his way up to the line.When a further Sanchez penalty restored Argentina's lead, the All Blacks hit back with a long-range penalty by Israel Dagg and a try to Barrett.Sanchez landed his fifth penalty early in the second half to close the gap to 24-22, but then the Pumas started to tire - as the All Blacks stepped up a gear to score at better than a point a minute.With their third win out of three, the victory kept the All Blacks on track to win the southern hemisphere championship for the fourth time in five years. They also remain unbeaten after 23 clashes with Argentina, winning 22 and drawing one, and they stretched their current unbeaten run against all sides to 14.SCORERSAll Blacks 57 - Tries: Julian Savea, Ben Smith (2), Beauden Barrett, Ryan Crotty (2), Charlie Faumuina, Luke Romano. Conversions: Barrett (6), Aaron Cruden. Penalty: Israel Dagg.Argentina 22 - Try: Santiago Cordero. Conversion: Nicolas Sanchez. Penalties: Sanchez (5) .