This has become the mantra of our age; many of us have forgotten how to regret. Are you listening, Edith Piaf?I regret almost everything: going to the matric dance looking like a Voortrekker wagon. That I encouraged drama and pain. That, teetering on a rope of comic fantasies, grandeur and self-pity, I got up on a stage at a nightclub and did an improvised dance that involved self-expression, drunk.Like Hamlet - "Yea, from the table of my memory, I'll wipe away ..." - many just can't leave the mind. I regret being in love for 40 years with the same man, who said: "Yes, I do have feelings for you, I hate you." I regret having those chairs covered in shocking pink.I regret the uncouth profession of journalism, palling up to people for stories and being in so many permanently temporary arrangements that life is makeshift. Cunning breakup tricks only a guy could think ofI regret not making myself more anonymous in daily life (the confessional is trashy) and being too keen on violent rapture and the first throes of love.I regret not knowing that sincerity could be suicidal and that writing for a reader doesn't win you friends. I regret that I look on personal publicity as self-immolating and I regret being unable to get through Moby-Dick, losing my mother's hand-sorted Cartier pearls, caring too much and too little about the material.I regret not having a pension and thinking I would not live beyond 50. I regret finishing med school but not doing the internship because I wanted to live in Paris and be a writer.I regret sending the wrong e-mail showing that I am an angry person with poor impulse control, I regret being vociferously left-wing and being an advocate of committing the seven deadly sins before you turn 30. Actually, I regret turning 30. I regret not answering a note slipped to me in a train carriage in Europe with one word: HELP. I regret not giving the man who found my purse the R500 in it.I regret the internet that has lanced the intellect with an itchy-trigger-fingered triage of information and introduced us to Kim Kardashian's fetishist bum.It is such a pity that regret has become a Cinderella emotion. Even Brexiters are no longer allowed to linger on its leisurely shores before being told to "move on".Ah, and I regret ever having worn a poncho.