It probably is a petty topic, if you are not a black girl or woman, yet so many of you hold such strong opinions about our hair. Black women s hair is discussed more than that of any other demographic out there. Many of us are quick to jump on slamming skin lighteners but refuse to talk about equally dangerous ingredients found in hair relaxers. Hashtags such as #iamnotmyhair become very popular very fast, while nobody says #iamnotmyskin when racist comments are flung around, based on the colour of your skin. Each to their own, I suppose. We have been policed enough, as black women. I am my hair as long as you continue to use it against me. Just like I am my skin, my nose and my lips until you start seeing them as equal to yours. All of these things are part of my identity and nobody has the right to tell me they are not good enough. Least of all a white person or a man. Lesufi on hair protest: It was important that the learners views were heardWaking up on the morning of August 29 to images of 13-year-old schoolgirls protesting against racism at their school, Pretoria Girls High, I became very emotional. When I was 13, I was stressing about whether or not the boy I had a crush on would be my first kiss. It is hugely unfair that 13-year-old black girls should be distracted from their childhoods and their studies to fight battles that their parents, grandparents and great-grandparents have been fighting. Who wants to be an activist at 13? I think it s safe to say that being an activist is no fun. Being woke can truly be a burden. Life was way more fun before I realised how political it all is. As a black girl/woman, you soon learn that although you may be quick to defend others in positions of oppression (homosexual, transgender, black males, women in general, children ) when we fight for the rights of black women, we stand alone. Our black brothers will be next to us when we fight racism and our white sisters near us when we are for feminism but talk about black feminism (fighting racism and sexism simultaneously), suddenly we stand alone. It would seem we are the only ones who understand that an injustice is not an injustice only when it happens to someone who looks like you. So while these black girls at Pretoria Girls High fight to wear their hair in its natural form, their white peers are nowhere to be seen. Instead, the same peers have tried to dismiss these girls complaints as no different to them being asked to tie up their hair at school. Oh boy I listened to the radio pretty much all day on this day, talk radio stations, specifically. I heard many men (black and white) comparing this to them being policed on what hairstyles they could wear to school. White boys complained that they were sometimes told their hair was too short. Black boys said they weren t allowed to have dreadlocks or haircuts with funky lines running across. White girls and women also called in saying, I have long straight hair and I was also never allowed to leave it down. I had to keep it tied up at school. I was told it looks neater that way. Rules are rules. There was even a white mother, on 702, who has a black adopted daughter. The girl is 10 years old and she has been with her white mother for nine years. The mother s point was that her daughter s hair is very difficult to manage and therefore schools were taking this into consideration when suggesting that black girls straighten their hair to make it more manageable.If you have not yet picked up the very glaring problem about these examples and the fundamental point that is being missed here, let me break it down for you: our hair is not something to be fixed. The afro (I realise it s not a very common sight, so many of you might have forgotten this fact) is our hair s natural state. It s not a hair cut. It s not a pony tail. It is the way our hair grows out of our scalp upwards, not down like many other hair types. It is not a style you go to the salon to achieve. This is why representation is so important. It is why it is so dangerous to make one look (whiteness) more normalised or the default state of being, especially in a black-majority country. It is outrageous that we are still expected to assimilate whiteness in order to get ahead! Not just about hair - it's values, tooTelling black girls to straighten their hair (I won t even go into the dangers of relaxers) is like telling white girls to come to school in short perms, similar to the fro. Or telling blue-eyed children to wear brown contact lenses because the majority in this country has brown eyes. It is ludicrous. It makes no sense. It is racist. I focused on hair because as a beauty editor and founder of The Matte Project, this is a topic very close to what I aim to do (normalise our (black) features make them the default in our country). The fact that these children are also not allowed as black kids to congregate in big groups (this is seen as a threat) or speak in their mother tongue (African languages) only strengthens my point that this is about race.The same rules applied back in 1994 when I was attending a Model C school in Queenstown, called Balmoral. I see not much has changed since then. If you don t care enough or understand the big deal when it comes to black girls hair, rather keep quiet and listen or stay out of it altogether.