NOT too long ago, the Currie Cup was frowned upon as having receded into the backwaters of South African rugby.Such, however, has been the inglorious start to the international season for the Springboks that the competition has suddenly reacquainted itself with relevance.Where else will the Springbok selectors turn to for imminent form; although there is Europe and Japan.Halfway through the competition these are the players who have seized the moment.Curwin Bosch (Sharks)The outrageously gifted Bosch reminds a little of Conrad Jantjes in his pomp. He seems to have the ball on a string but at 19, he doesn't quite have the physical dimensions to stand his ground around the rucks.That will come, predicted former Sharks backline coach Grant Bashford, who believes Bosch's star isn't about to dim. "He is a superstar. He has very good traits," he said. "He has a cannon boot, a bit like Frans Steyn. He doesn't just kick the ball out but does so on the other side of the halfway line. His goal kicking is good. But he is a youngster and often they kick without fear."His decision-making from the back has been good. In his first game at 10, it looked like he battled a little with his depth. He has looked more comfortable at 15 but he will be a good 10," said Bashford, who had no qualms about elevating Bosch to a higher level. "We always had a philosophy at the Sharks. If he's good enough, he's old enough. Curwin is good enough, provided he is ready mentally."</img>Blue Bulls wing player Jamba Ulengo. Image: Gallo Images Blue Bulls wing player Jamba Ulengo. Image: Gallo Images The former Jim Fouche High School pupil started making a name for himself last year.After a slow start in this campaign, he is again playing with confidence. Going into this weekend's fixtures, he has scored four tries."I have been impressed with him every time I've seen him play," said Bashford. "He has a way of finding the try line one way or the other. He is big, strong and aggressive. I was impressed with him when the Bulls played in Durban."Bashford was quick to add that Lwazi Mvovo remains a quality wing who needs to restore his confidence.</img>Golden Lions loosehead prop Dylan Smith. Image: Gallo Images Golden Lions loosehead prop Dylan Smith. Image: Gallo ImagesThe bustling loosehead has had to grow up quickly. In the hurly burly world of fronting, the scrum reputations are quickly made and lost."He is world-class," gushed former Bok and Lions hooker Owen Nkumane. "I think he has come through the ranks nicely. He offers you quite a bit on defence andhandles pretty well."I think initially he struggled to keep his place in the team because the Cheetahs had an established strong scrum. I think he offers you a solid all-round package."If I was going to invest in a good young loosehead it will be Ox, not because of his colour but because he is good. Besides, we need to rebuild," said Nkumane.</img>Free State Cheetahs prop Ox Nche. Image: Gallo Images Free State Cheetahs prop Ox Nche. Image: Gallo ImagesSmith is highly rated in the national set-up and is on the Bok back-up list."Without a doubt, Dylan will be a Springbok one day," his under-21 coach Russel Winter once said. "He is intelligent. He is committed and he does what is asked of him. He has all the abilities needed to play at the top.""He has grabbed his opportunity well at the Lions," nodded Nkumane. Smith came through strongly in the latter part of Super Rugby. It helped that he had former King Edward VII schoolmate Malcolm Marx alongside him.</img>Western Province flyhalf Robert du Preez. Image: Gallo Images Western Province flyhalf Robert du Preez. Image: Gallo ImagesThe Western Province No10 has had his progress halted by injury this season. He has recovered, however, and has looked good, particularly last weekend against the Sharks."I saw quite a bit of him in our junior system," Bashford said. "His game has developed. He had a helluva good Currie Cup last year. He missed a few kicks in the final and missed touch a few times. Those are the things people remember but he's a good player."sports@timesmedia.co.za