When and why did you start Shibby Beats? Music has always been a passion of mine and when my husband and I went to Thailand, the first thing we bought was a little portable bluetooth speaker. We loved it so much we took it everywhere. When we got back I started looking for a better quality speaker that would suit our style and our home, but the options were limited in terms of design. Meet the makers who find value in understated cool stuffWoodwork has always appealed to me and I thought it would make a great collaboration to pair the rustic elements of wood with the modern technology of bluetooth speakers to bring back an old classic in a fresh new way.In the beginning of 2015 I launched our first range of wooden bluetooth speakers and this month sees us launching the second range.Can you describe your brand in three words? Home-grown, exclusive, on trend.What music is usually playing on your own Shibby?There's a lot of tropical house - Sam Feldt and Ofenbach are among my favourites, and I'm obsessed with Novo Amor at the moment.How would you describe your personal style? It changes from day to day. I love a bohemian style but often end up in the simple classic of jeans and a white tee, or whatever my dog, Jasper, hasn't dragged into the garden.A product you'd love to make one day? If I told you I'd be spoiling the surprise on a future range!A design tip for our readers? Make it personal. Draw from styles and periods that appeal to you and think of ways to integrate them in a new way.</img>Shibby Beats owner and designer, Michelle Tomlinson. Image: SuppliedShibby Beats owner and designer, Michelle Tomlinson. Image: SuppliedYour favourite materials to work with and why? Wood. Every piece is unique; the creative possibilities are endless.Trends you love? The move towards natural materials and eco-conscious design.Trends you hate?Reality TV.Good design is ... anything that has the power to make you stop and smile.For more info on Shibby Beats or to shop online, www.shibbybeats.com