I can't leave home without tripping over a workshop. Just yesterday I landed in the flowerbed while trying to side-step a gathering of gnomic gardeners workshopping the benefits of geranium oil as a salad dressing."Workshop" was once a worthy word steeped in honest labour. From about the 1580s, a workshop was a shop which potential buyers could visit not only to buy goods but to watch the worker working at whatever work he did. In this way they were able to assess the quality and craftsmanship produced by said work before deciding whether to make a purchase. At least that's what I have always imagined a workshop to be.My friend Natus has a workshop that fits this definition. It is a shop between other shops on a suburban street of shops, but it is also a place of work, where customers can place their orders while watching Natus produce beautiful things out of wood and steel. Coveting thy neighbours language These are not the workshops that frighten me. For one thing, there are very few of them left, and for another they tend to stay in one place. The other workshops, those that encroach further every day on our peace of mind, are invidious, insidious things that breed in the night and attach themselves to everything from eggs to assiduity. They threaten our very way of being with their implication that nothing can exist unless it has been workshopped.How can two good words get together and make one bad word? (I suppose there are other cases of this; the moms and dads of malignant miscreants might ask themselves the same question.)"Workshop" comes from those twin pillars of society, the combined heartbeat of humanity: working and shopping."Work", meaning to create something or to ply one's trade, has not changed its definition ever since it evolved from the Proto-Germanic noun werkan. "Shop" too, is a clear and simple word largely believed to be descended from the Old English scoppa, a 14th-century term for a "booth or shed for trade or work", according to the Online Etymology Dictionary.And then along came workshop. Like many villains, it worked hard and pretended to be an ordinary, law-abiding sort of word for the first 350 years of its life."But it was always so quiet and polite," said the neighbours of workshop after the news broke. "When we heard it had turned into a think tank we just couldn't believe it." Spread your litter elsewhereOn that fateful day, just a few years before World War 2, workshop turned on its friends, family and fellows. "I am no longer content to be a shop where work is done," it said. "I want world domination. I hereby declare that no group of two or more people may hold a meeting to discuss anything whatsoever unless they call it a workshop."And thus it was. But workshop was not content with branding every gathering with its name. It decided to go a step further. Workshoppers would no longer discuss, argue, debate or study anything. They would "workshop" it.Once a noun becomes a verb there is nowhere it cannot go. Look out for a workshop in which workshoppers will be invited to workshop ways in which to make the world more aware of workshops.While workshopping this column I happened upon the website for the "Gnomon Workshop", an institute that provides training for artists in the entertainment industry. This enabled me to discover that a gnomon is the part of a sundial that casts a shadow. Like workshop, it has a second string to its bow: in geometry a gnomon is "a plane figure formed by removing a similar parallelogram from a corner of a larger parallelogram". Who said workshops can't be useful?E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1