Da Gama said the plan was still to be finalised by the South African Football Association (Safa).He said with a planned participation in the Toulon tournament in France in late May having fallen through because it clashed with the end of the Premier Soccer League season, the Cosafa Cup from June 11 to 25 would provide ideal preparation for the Olympic men's football tournament.The U23s have qualified for their first Olympics since Sydney 2000.Safa's current cash flow problems have been well documented. The association has to send a team to the Cosafa Cup, for Southern African national teams, so would kill two birds with one stone utilising the Olympic squad, which is allowed three over-age players.In a tournament format, the U23s could encounter strong teams from the likes of Zimbabwe, Angola, Mozambique and guest side Democratic Republic of Congo. If you thought the Soweto derby was a torrid affair, spare a thought for the Limpopo clash between Polokwane City and Baroka FC"Once the league is finished we'll give the boys a short rest, then we have the Fifa date [on May 30 to June 7 for a potential friendly match]," Da Gama said. "Then the timing of Cosafa, everything is right. There's no better way to sharpen a squad than in a tournament format."The final 22 players for Brazil need to be submitted by July 14. Da Gama said it has not been resolved whether Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba will travel with the team to Namibia, or in what capacity."Of course I will have to be in charge of the team as the one to take it to Rio. But how we go about that is still to be finalised," he said.A potential stumbling block is that there have been occasions in the past where Cosafa have objected to South Africa attempting to send junior teams to their tournament."We will be going under the banner of Bafana Bafana," Da Gama said. "And at the end of the day this is the future Bafana. There are senior team players already."Objections by Cosafa (the Council of Southern Africa Football Associations) to an SA Olympic squad in Windhoek would be self-defeating. Such a team would be more high profile than the likely Bafana "D" team that would be the alternative.Cosafa chief operations officer Sue Destombes seemed unable to answer the question of whether the body might object to SA sending their Olympic squad to June's tournament. "I would think it would not be a problem because it would be excellent preparation for South Africa for the Olympics," Destombes said.She said she would try to confirm this with Cosafa president Suketu Patel, who was in the country from his Seychelles base for meetings.Attempts to contact Patel through Destombes were unsuccessful.