Are you the right man for the Bafana Bafana coaching job?Am I the right person for the job?I do not doubt my abilities because I have been working with (different) national teams all my career.But people have a right to judge and the only thing I would love to hear is when a person says I am not good, it should be because of one, two and three. But for now, I do not doubt my abilities to coach Bafana.I am looking forward to continue with the team and complete the 2018 World Cup qualifiers. Do you feel you are criticised unfairly at times, especially when things don't go well?I am the kind of person who doesn't believe there is such a thing as right or bad criticism. The only problem is people tend to exaggerate.How is your relationship with the players in the wake of the unhappiness they communicated to Sunday Times two weeks ago?Not even a single player has ever shown me that he is not happy.All the players train in camp, we joke and when we have meals we have them together. I doubt if there is any player who will come out openly and say I have wronged them.What about some of the players' criticism of the preparations and tactics employed before games, and also being clueless about the opposition?To those who say that, when we took over this job, this team played good football and that has never changed.We are still playing the same good football and it is most unfortunate that I cannot discuss what happens in our sessions now. That is why we always say to people, if you have got time, come to our training sessions and see for yourself.If you go to other clubs worldwide, huge crowds come to their training sessions and they get to see what the coach is doing. But without any doubt I think we are helping the players a lot in terms of tactics.What is your football explanation for not giving Kamohelo Mokotjo as much time on the pitch as other players in his position? We invite players based on their form and how they play at their club, but that doesn't give them automatic qualification to (walk) into the team.What we do in the two days we have them in camp is to play practice games and then tell players they've got to compete for their positions. And if other players perform better in those practice games, you can't then base (final selection decisions) on (which country) the players play.We always give them an opportunity to prove themselves. One other thing that worries more about Mr Mokotjo's case is that they have made it personal. It is as if I do not like him or something.I want to highlight something to people: Mokotjo went through these hands at the age of 12. When we went to the 2003 Danone Nations Cup in France, I was the manager of that team. What would have changed since then? Why would I hate Mokotjo within such a short space of time, for what good reason? To me he remains a player and he is still a player. If he changes his mind, he is still welcome to play for Bafana.How do you go about resolving this standoff with Kamohelo Mokotjo?Imagine sitting with a person (in camp) and then the next day you read, and you are not told, you read that this person says this about you.I am disappointed really, I do not want to tell you lies.I was available, the assistant coaches (Thabo Senong and Owen da Gama) were there and even the manager Mr Barney Kujane, who has played a role as a father figure to these players. I know whenever they want something they go to him (Kujane).For me really, I can only hope that one day we - Mokotjo and I - meet and he tells me what made him so angry to such an extent that he says he will not play for Bafana Bafana as long as I am here.Have you made any attempts to contact Kamohelo Mokotjo since he quit Bafana on Instagram?It is a difficult thing because I do not know where this is coming from. If I only knew. But if the opportunity comes, I will definitely sit down and talk to him. I have got no grudges with Mokotjo because we are coach and player, nothing else beyond that.Bafana's qualification campaign hangs by a thread and we might not qualify for the 2017 Afcon. How do you turn things around?We have two games - against Mauritania and the Gambia - to play and if we win we will be on nine points. It's unfortunate that we are relying on favours elsewhere.And even if we win our two remaining matches, there are no guarantees. But we still have the World Cup qualifiers coming. Iheanacho at the double for CityHow do you monitor overseas-based players?I understand the people who say I must travel to Europe to watch the players. But sometimes you go watch the player and he is not playing or he only plays 30 minutes.You go to another player and he plays 90 minutes but when he comes down to South Africa, he's not the same. That is why we are relying on some of the statistics that are sent by the clubs' technical committees.There's talk you do not see eye to eye with Safa technical director Neil Tovey. What is going on?That is an allegation and I don't know what they mean when they say we don't see eye to eye.I would love to say to people they must come out and say "you don't do this and he does not do that..."In your understanding, what is Tovey's role at Safa? Does he report to you or do you report to him?I think I will not dwell on that one because it is a delicate issue. You are raising a point about reporting to him or him reporting to me.That needs to be clarified by the association and they must say "this is your responsibility and this is his responsibility". But we do talk with the technical director and there is no barrier between us.Lastly, coach, do you feel your job is under threat?No, not at all.