In a clash that pitted the student Pitso Mosimane against his master Jomo Sono, the Brazilians' quality was evident from the first whistle.The home team's lineup shared a combined 34 league goals and Cosmos' starting 11 shared just seven, with five coming from marksman Charlton Mashumba. In fact, Downs are the league's top scorers and Cosmos' are the lowest scorers and the difference was there for all to see. Sundowns could have scored with just 44 seconds on the clock. Colombian international Leonardo Castro forced his way past Cosmos defenders and combined with Khama Billiat, but his attempt was well wide.Castro had another chance in the sixth minute but his shot was blocked.Even Sundowns' hard man Soumahoro Bangaly, who was deployed in central midfield to defend, managed to find his way forward in the ninth minute. The Ivorian played through Themba Zwane, but the latter's shot was blocked.Zwane then failed to control the ball in the box after a pinpoint pass by Langerman in the 17th minute. Another good chance gone.Cosmos, who were at this stage chasing shadows, finally had created a chance in the 20th minute. Bangaly was dispossessed by Tebogo Makobela not far from the box, but the winger had little support and opted for a shot that was way over the bar.Ezenkosi's resurgence was shortlived, though.Keagan Dolly had a great chance to put Sundowns ahead with half an hour gone after great work by Billiat from the right. Billiat passed to Dolly, who shot straight at Lesego Modiba.Modiba, however, was unable to keep out Sundowns any longer. Castro put Sundowns in front in the 32nd minute when he received a great pass from Billiat, and, with Modiba off his line, Castro chipped the ball over for the opener. An awesome goal.And while Cosmos were trying to recover from this setback, Sundowns again went on the offensive, with strongman Hlompho Kekana playing a long pass to Billiat. In a one-on-one situation, Billiat raced past Frederick Nsabiyumva and shot past Modiba in the 34th minute to make it 2-0.Cosmos came out looking better in the second half, but it was always going to be difficult to break down the Sundowns defence. Instead, Downs, who were now sitting back, were still able to create some chances.On a counter, Dolly beat the offside trap in the 56th minute to cross to Castro, whose header appeared to be going in only for Modiba to produce a great save and his defence cleared.The troublesome Mashumba tried with a free kick from distance in the 67th minute, but goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands easily collected.From then on, Cosmos struggled to get past the Sundowns defence and the Tshwane charges held on for a comfortable and valuable victory.Mamelodi Sundowns 2Jomo Cosmos 0