Sunday Times spoke to the coaches of Downs (on 52 points) and the Clever Boys (48) on their last seven matches.Wednesday, April 13 v Polokwane City (away) This game is tough, coming after we get back from Kinshasa [from today's Caf Champions League first leg match against AS Vita]. But I don't want to overhype this match against unpredictable opponents. The players must see it as just another game.Saturday, April 16 v Jomo Cosmos (home)Cosmos are physical. I could rotate. But what I've told my players is now it's like being in front in a marathon, and you're into the final stretch. I'm asking them to go through barriers.Wednesday, April 27 v Ajax Cape Town (away)You never know with this young, unpredictable Ajax what you're going to get. And we don't have a good record against them in Cape Town - last year we lost. When Ajax play Free State Stars the mood is not the same as against Sundowns. We play cup finals against teams like Ajax.Saturday, April 30 v Kaizer Chiefs (home)Chiefs-Sundowns is always tight. For their players it's about integrity as defending champions. They might not win the league but can defeat Sundowns, and they're still aiming for a Champions League spot.Wednesday, May 4 v University of Pretoria (away)It would be nice to wrap it up before Wits. Tuks are a puzzle. They give you tough matches. The same Tuks can have a 3-1 lead against SuperSport with 20 minutes left and lose.Wednesday, May 11 v Wits (away)Losing at Bidvest Stadium last season cost us the league. The pressure is on them too. We can afford to lose one. Can Wits? This season we beat them 4-0 in Atteridegville. But we know they are organised and give us a hard time there.Saturday, May 21, 2016 v Platinum Stars (home)Dikwena always give us trouble. But to be honest, recently it's not the same. Last season we went to Rustenburg and won (2-1), then they came here and equalised in the last minute.Wednesday, April 13 v Jomo Cosmos (away)They're fighting relegation. Every game you play of the last six or seven games of the season is a bunfight.Saturday, April 16 v Free State Stars (home)They're fighting for the top eight. Stars are playing well and look revitalised. Giovanni Solinas has changed the system and has made them harder to beat.Tuesday, April 26 v SuperSport United (away)They've spent money and they've got players who can score and a good squad. They're finding their feet under Stuart Baxter but we know they're capable of winning games.Saturday, April 30 v Chippa United (home)They're a big, strong side and very powerful. They're not easy to play.Tuesday, May 3 v Black Aces (away)They beat us at home. They're a young side. They've been through a slump, but every team goes through that and usually comes out of it.Wednesday, May 11 v Sundowns (home)That we beat them there last season means nothing. They've got the best squad in the country by miles.Saturday, May 21 v Ajax Cape Town (away)They're unpredictable being young. I don't mind playing in the Cape at all - it's my home.