"Do you need motivation in your life? Blah, blah, blah. Yada, yada, yada." Here's breaking news: that balderdash doesn't work. It's just flimflam for the gullible.Motivation on two feet is what I met on Thursday morning. Caster Mokgadi Semenya. The skies were grey, gloomy with light heavenly waterworks dripping down from above.She was a combination of a ball of fire that exuded such warmth of personality and a picture perfect of mental fortitude personified.Semenya has been through thick and thin.Lesser souls wouldn't have been able to sustain such scrutiny.Most of it so personal. Most of it so negative. Most of it so unwarranted. Weaker folk would have drowned in self-pity in the deluge of such perusal. But Caster Mokgadi Semenya is made of sterner stuff. Hers is a life of overcoming obstacles.And she succeeds because she is blessed with a mental fortitude.It is defined as "the ability to work hard and respond resiliently to failure and adversity; the inner quality that enables individuals to work hard and stick to their long-term passions and goals".Standing up against adversity is something Semenya has had from fellow athletes who made snide remarks against her, but she has taken it all in her stride.Her inner quality shows every time she makes her opponents eat dust. She has resilience in abundance that can carry her from Cape to Cairo.Through our chat at the University of Potchefstroom High Performance Centre, I couldn't help but think of people who've wasted opportunities in sport without having gone through what Semenya has gone through.Some could not sustain a stay at an overseas club because they were homesick and missed pap.Others cannot distinguish between social drinking and abusing the volatile intoxicating flammable liquid at the expense of their careers.In life, people are quick to quit at the first sight of adversity.Semenya understands that in the midst of adversity lies opportunity. She is conversant with the fact that life is not a bed of roses, that life owes her nothing, that it is all up to her to make the best of her opportunities through her talent.She's comfortable in her skin. I also saw her engage with her coach, Jean Verster.Just from watching their interaction, you can see that there is a chemistry between them.An absolute admiration. A mutual respect between teacher and pupil.Between two human beings united by the mission of striving for excellence.In her words "I am a woman of passion, who likes to lead, easy to talk to. I am a soldier, a fighter. I strive for victories. I love running. I'm more of a heroine."It is my wish that many who may find themselves in a position which pits them against the world, may find an oasis of inspiration in Semenya, the first person to win 400m, 800m and 1500m races at the SA Championships all in one day."Are you going through a tough time? Are you mentally and physically drained? Do you need motivation in your life? Blah, blah, blah. Yada, yada, yada."Look no further than Caster Mokgadi Semenya. May her God and the Semenya ancestors bless her to achieve all her dreams.Twitter: @bbkunplugged99