"There's only one word to describe this really: BOOM! Whooooaaahhh! What was this," said Kloppo as he cracked a hearty laugh and the interviewer joined in the jollity.Crash. Boom. Bang. That's how one sums up Liverpool's majestic come-from-behind victory against Dortmund on Thursday night. Some may add: Orgasmic. Euphoric. Ecstatic.An incredible early Borrusia Dortmund blitz left Liverpool shell-shocked. Three unanswered goals is what they desperately needed to bundle Dortmund out of the Uefa Europa League quarterfinals.Dead and buried is what they were at 2-0 down at the break (3-1 on aggregate).There was definitely no way back was the feeling when Dortmund added a third goal in the second half.It was over. Not quite. This is Liverpool Football Club.The Reds of Bill Shankly. Of Bob Paisley. Of G rard Houllier. Of Rafa Benitez. Of Kenny Dalglish. Of Klopp.They were in a deep, dark dungeon on Thursday night. That's exactly how Liverpool loves it. Escaping through the eye of the needle.They love nothing more than dumping their fans in the depths of despair only to rise like the proverbial phoenix to extract victory from the jaws of defeat.The Kop raised the Anfield roof as they urged Klopp's men to "attack, attack, attack".Forward they marched, James Milner leading them to producing another European miracle to surge into the semifinals, sparking Kloppmania the world over.Divok Origi, crash!Phillipe Coutinho, boom!!Mamadou Sakho, bang!!!Dejan Lovren's heart-stopping, stoppage-time winner completed one of the most unbelievable wins we've witnessed in our lifetime. Booooom!!!!It had echoes of Istanbul when Benitez masterminded the mother of all comebacks in the 2005 Champions League final when his side overturned a 3-0 deficit to thump AC Milan on penalties.SA clubs should be proud to be playing Africa's bestIt was a defining moment of Klopp's six-month Anfield stint, made more significant by the fact that it was achieved against the former side he led to two Bundesliga titles and a Champions League final. The significance of that showing signalled how much Klopp has changed at Anfield without really changing much. He has worked with what he inherited from Brendan Rodgers. He has given everyone an equal chance to show what they can do.And his players are responding in a bid to make sure that theirs are among the names Klopp will deem as surplus to requirements when his spring cleaning comes in the off-season. There is an unmistakable improvement in the performances of Sakho and Lovren in defence and Origi and Firmino in offence.Simon Mignolet is showing better command of the penalty box and an assured ability to deal with crosses.His touch is adding renewed hope for those who worship at the altar of Anfield like yours truly that an awakening of the Reds is in the making under the German ball of fire.Liverpool have been a laughing stock and have been ridiculed - rightly so - for being purveyors of past glory. Way too many average players have been allowed to wear the jersey in the last decade. Rodgers gave fans hope with a league title challenge. It is in how Klopp spurred his side to summon all their powers that inspires the belief that many more memorable nights await the Kop under Klopp.@bbkunplugged99