With Premier Soccer League leaders Sundowns having had a four-point gap over Wits coming into the match, and notching the victories with metronomic regularity they won again 2-0 against Jomo Cosmos earlier yesterday the Clever Boys were under pressure for a win.They met resolute opponents in Stars, and the result has given Sundowns a six-point breathing space in the title race. Substitute Joaquim Lupeta spurned perhaps the chance of the game one of a string to Wits in the second half heading Jabulani Shongwe s cross wide from four metres.Stars have given Wits trouble this season. After drawing 0-0 in the league in late September, the Free Staters beat the Johannesburg team 1-0 to boot them out of the Telkom Knockout, both matches played in Bethlehem, Free State.Another poor performance as Chiefs relinquish PSL titleStars have looked impressive under relatively unknown Giovanni Solinas in the second half of the season, coming into last night s game in eighth spot. It seemed a mark of Wits coach Gavin Hunt s respect for his opposition that he matched their three centre-backs with the same quantity of his own starting with Bongani Khumalo, Buhle Mkhwanazi and Nazeer Allie as his back triumvirate.Wits were unusually pressed back on their pool table home surface by the game Ea Lla Koto in the first half, Solinas s team even edging scoring chances. In the second half, Hunt s side stepped things up, and forced themselves onto the front foot, but just couldn t finish well.Early on, Sibusiso Vilakazi was put through on a run onto goal that seemed destined for a result, but Stars centre-back Paulus Masehe recovered well. Almost immediately at the other end, playmaker Lucky Mohomi floated in a cross that Nhlanhla Vilakazi ran onto to head and force a reflex save from keeper Moeneeb Josephs.Wits upped the tempo in the second half, forcing themselves upfield and penetrating Stars back four regularly. Ben Motswari s corner fell to Henrico Botes at the far post, who attempted to sweep in past Stars goalkeeper Johnny Mathole, who got down well to the save.Phumlani Ntshangase s chip into the middle found Sifiso Hlanti for a close-range free header that the left back steered straight at Mathole. With Stars battling to clear a ball from their area in the 68th, Siyabonga Nhlapo spooned a volley onto the right upright.Then substitute James Keene, on for Botes, could not get a leg up just in front of Mathole. Wits had a convincing penalty shout turned down by referee Zolile Mthetho when Daine Klate went down with 10 minutes left.Lupeta s chance could have won it. It might prove a crucial miss for the title chasers. Stars were reduced to 10 men when they had midfielder Nhlanhla Vilakazi sent off for a second bookable offence in the 61st minute, after a rash challenge on Klate.