Pauw said such a group can put SA women's football on the map."I was celebrating in my chair. It's fantastic for South African football," SA's Dutch coach said from Brazil. Pauw gets down to the nitty-gritty"We can really show the strength of our team. Whether it's enough to go to the next round we need to see."Of course, the draw could have been better," she said. "But we stay in Rio where everything happens and don't have to travel for the first two games. Then going to Manaus to play the host country is amazing."This group gives all the ingredients to show the world South Africa is on a path to being part of global football. I know all the teams inside out because of my involvement in Fifa, analysing teams at World Cups. Now it's just about how do we get the players ready for them."Banyana, ranked 54th in the world, debuted at the London Olympics four years ago. They lost 4-1 against Sweden and 3-0 against Canada, before drawing 1-1 against Japan.Here are profiles of Banyana Banyana's opponents:Sweden, August 3, Rio de JaneiroRanked sixth in the world, Sweden were World Cup finalists in 2003 and finished third in 1991 and 2011.Their best Olympic finish was fourth at Athens 2004.Pauw says: "They're coached by Pia Sunhage, who has been my hero my whole life, first as a player going to Italy, where I followed her to. She was Fifa women's coach of the year last year. Sweden are a superpower."They have talent coming through. They're a big, strong team. But usually they don't surprise you. We know how they play - the question is what do we put against that? Caroline Seger is a key player for us trying to break down that defence. Lotta Schelin is a top striker, and once perhaps the best player in the world."China, August 6, Rio de JaneiroRanked 12th in the world, China were World Cup finalists in 1999 and Olympic silver medallists at Atlanta 1996, both times losing to the US in the final.Pauw says: "China are an upcoming nation. They were very good in the 1999 World Cup. They went through a big dip after that."Bruno Brini, former coach of the French women's team, has taken over, and they have risen again. Countries like Japan and North Korea are not at the Olympics because of them. "It's a country I have to look further into. Although the last time I analysed them was a year ago, so I just need a top-up. They don't have star players - it's a team ethic with them."Brazil, August 9, ManausRanked eighth in the world, Brazil were Olympic silver medallists in 2004 and 2008 and have placed fourth twice. They lost to Germany in the 2007 World Cup final, and finished third in 1999.Pauw says: "We don't need any motivation for the Olympic Games, of course. But playing Brazil, the host nation, a team that has seen everything and done everything, in a full stadium - that's the place you want to be as a top athlete."Striker Marta has been Fifa women's player of the year so many times [from 2006 to 2010]."Central midfielder Formiga has a key role as a very experienced player who balances the team constantly. Erika is a defender we need to try to get past."