The Burundian midfielder has not played for the Clever Boys since he experienced a blackout in a practice match on December 8 at Bidvest Stadium.The incident happened immediately after Faty entered the field as a substitute in a friendly against SuperSport United. He collapsed without being challenged during the match."It happened so quickly. He was in the box waiting for a corner and he just went down. It was a scary moment," recalled a Wits player, who asked to remain anonymous.He was rushed to Milpark hospital and spent two days being attended to by doctors before he was discharged. Hlanti living his dreamFaty has been playing in South Africa's Premier Soccer League since the 2012/13 season and has earned a reputation for being a robust competitor in the heart of midfield.Wits have not been forthcoming with information regarding the 25-year-old's situation since his collapse. The player has also refused to talk about the issue, even with his own teammates."When you ask him what the problem is, he says: 'I will be fine, my friend, it is nothing' and he walks away."He refuses to talk about it ... No-one can tell you what's going on ... I feel sorry for him," said the source.There is no shortage of rumours at the club about Faty's illness.Whatever the malady, Faty started and finished two matches for his native Burundi against Namibia in 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers last month.Faty was in the starting XI when Burundi lost 3-1 against Namibia in Bujumbura on March 26.He also started when Burundi got their revenge in Windhoek with a 3-1 victory.Faty, ever competitive, was booked in the 75th minute for unsporting behaviour at Sam Nujoma Stadium in the capital city. How Mashaba lost the plot in his quest for glory"That was a shock for us, because Papy has not trained with us since he collapsed. The club [Wits] has said that the doctors advised that he rests as a precautionary measure."It was a surprise to hear that he was going on national team duty. It was good to hear that because it means he is fine, but obviously surprising because he has not been training," the source said.Faty has been a regular for Wits since making his debut in the 2012/13 season. He boasts 78 starts, nine substitutions and 12 goals to his name.A source close to the player says Faty himself has become increasingly frustrated and wants answers."He's mad about the whole thing. The problem is the doctors who treated him are from outside the club and the club has not said anything about them."He's breathing normally and he is not on any medication, but has not been allowed to train. It is frustrating," the source said.Wits CEO Jose Ferreira refused to discuss any details relating to the matter, but mentioned that Faty may start training this week."We will get a proper verdict on Monday and he will start training, hopefully. Unfortunately, I can't tell you anything now. It will have to be Monday," said Ferreira.The player was not available for comment as he was still out of the country.