That delightful pass which led to a spectacular Leonardo Castro goal against Jomo Cosmos last weekend had Ronaldinho written all over it. The skill to control the ball, the vision to see Castro wide open and the final pass was just sublime and showed how much quality Billiat has.It also showed how much Billiat has grown as a player, from the bright prospect at Ajax Cape Town to being the most important player in Mamelodi Sundowns' star-studded team.His rapid growth was bound to happen, having worked with coaches Foppe de Haan and Muhsin Ertugral at Ajax and now Mosimane. When he joined Sundowns in 2013/2014, there were concerns he would be like the many stars who went to Chloorkop and warmed the bench.But now he's a player Sundowns cannot do without."Starting at Ajax was the best thing. They are passionate about development. It's something I needed to have before going anywhere else. The basics I learnt there are helping me now," said Billiat, who is sometimes guilty of wasting too many scoring chances."I have a long way to go. I don't know how good I am, so I want to keep on pushing. I don't know if I will ever get to my best."I want to do all the basics right. If you ask someone what he thinks about Khama's passing, I want that person to say it's on point."I don't only want to improve on my scoring and assisting, I want to improve everything. I want to run so much and go home and sleep for two days."If I don't do that, then I have not worked enough. Joining Sundowns has taught me how to be a winner."He had a fairly good first season at Sundowns, but he knew he needed to improve on his six goals and seven assists.The second season was a bit better, with eight goals and five assists.In the current campaign, Billiat has been on another level and his 10 goals and 12 assists make him a hot favourite to win the footballer of the season award.He makes the team tick and his combination with Keagan Dolly and Castro has truly been exceptional. If you thought the Soweto derby was a torrid affair, spare a thought for the Limpopo clash between Polokwane City and Baroka FC"At Ajax I did not have many assists. I learnt how to assist at Sundowns."This has been one of my best seasons. (But) a lot of guys have been outstanding, like Keke (Hlompho Kekana), Keagan (Dolly) and Daine Klate. I will be happy if I can be a nominee."He is not quite there yet, but Billiat is almost the finished product. And he's only 25. Imagine what's still to come in the future.We've been talking about his goals and assists, but can you guess the one thing Billiat is really happy to have improved on? It's his defending. Can you believe it? It's the last thing you'd expect to hear from someone who is terrorising the opposition."Defending was not part of my game. Even if I wanted to, I just did not know how to. They were teaching me, but it took long to happen."Billiat, by his own admission, is weak. He cannot handle sitting on the bench, so he works extra hard to make sure he always plays. He would not go overseas if he knew he would not get regular game time.He's at the right age and has developed enough to make a move abroad, but he's in no rush."I don't want to go to Europe and not play. When I get to my best, I'll be ready to go."sports@timesmedia.co.za