Mathahle Stofile, founder of The Matte Project, which aims to spark conversations about beauty among women of colour, certainly believes so.The South African beauty editor explored the politicisation of black women and their looks during a talk titled The Short History of Black Beauty, held in Sandton City, Johannesburg, on Friday, April 15, as part of a series of events to celebrate the launch of Spring/Summer 2016 issue of The Edit, a Sunday Times magazine.</img>Mathahle Stofile, founder of The Matte Project. Image: SuppliedMathahle Stofile, founder of The Matte Project. Image: Supplied I find it impossible to talk about black beauty without talking about the politics of black beauty. I m also not a fan of the term black beauty because no one talks about white beauty , she said.Stofile took the audience through her own formative beauty experiences, speaking about the relationship her mother and grandmother had with their own looks. She described her mother as a woman whose beauty regimen consisted mainly of lipstick and perfume .When Stofile was growing up, her mother was loyal to Clinique products because their advertising featured no faces: it was purely about the product, unlike other international brands whose adverts featured only white women. Because [Clinique] didn t exclude my mother, it automatically included her, she said.Stofile s mother was a student at Fort Hare University in the mid-1960s when the Black Consciousness Movement was taking off; this influenced how she and her friends wore their hair. In contrast, Stofile s grandmother used skin-lightening creams and believed in colourism (the idea that lighter skin is better skin). If racism is the child of white supremacy, then colourism has to be the grandchild, said Stofile. Possibly the biggest crime of apartheid is teaching us lies about ourselves, teaching us to believe that we are not beautiful. It's time to look beyond black women's behindsStofile then touched on Hollywood and how it continued to push not only racism but colourism too. Using the casting of Elizabeth Taylor as Cleopatra as a classic example, Stofile spoke about the invisibility of black women in pop culture and the media.White men, white women and black men receive tons of media space, but when it comes to black women, we only have space for one Lupita [Nyong o] at a time, one Viola [Davis] at a time , she said.She also finds the casting of light-skinned Zoe Saldana as famed singer Nina Simone in the upcoming biopic Nina problematic. Simone was a very dark-skinned, broad-nosed, wide-mouth black woman who suffered because of it, she said. It s ironic that an actress who is dark-skinned, broad-nosed and wide-mouthed couldn t even land the role of Simone. Because of their portrayal in the media and the lasting effects of racism on their sense of self-worth, Stofile believes black women s appearances will always be political in one way or another. Well, that is until such a time white privilege doesn t exist . I wonder if there ever will be a time when our beauty is not associated with our politics, where we can be beautiful without being exotic , without being edgy , she said. I know that time will come, but it won t be any time soon. To celebrate the launch of the Autumn/Winter 2016 editions of 'The Edit' and 'The Edit Man' magazines, Sunday Times Fashion Weekly is hosting a series of luxe events and fascinating talks at the Diamond Walk in Sandton City, Joburg this weekend. Find out more here.