In a wide-ranging interview, Ranieri offered an intriguing insight into Leicester's unlikely challenge for the title by opening up about tactics, diet and even days off.They play Southampton today in their charge towards the title.Ranieri's appointment in July was seen as a huge gamble but the Italian has guided Leicester to the top of the league and gate-crashed the established elite.He is refusing to shift from his cautious persona, at least publicly, but has given a detailed account of his approach, starting from the first day of pre-season training in Austria. The Spurs are closer to their league title win"When I arrived in August, I started to look at the videos of all the games from the previous season. When I spoke with the players I realised that they were afraid of the Italian tactics," he said."They did not look convinced, and neither was I. I have great admiration for those who build new tactical systems, but I always thought the most important thing a good coach must do is to build the team around the characteristics of his players. So I told the players that I trusted them and would speak very little of tactics."It was important to me that they all ran hard, just as I'd seen running towards the end of last season."Ranieri had not operated in English football since his departure from Chelsea in 2004, enduring a miserable experience in his last post before Leicester as manager of the Greece national team.But the Italian has adapted his methodology since returning to the Premier League, giving his players "at least" two days off a week in a strategy that appears to contradict the relentless grind of Italian football.He said: "My boys are training a lot, but not too many times. In England, the game is always high intensity and wipes people out. They need more time to recover. We play on Saturdays and then Sunday is free for everyone. We resume on Monday with light training, the way they do it in Italy."Tuesday is hard training, Wednesday absolute rest. Thursday another hard workout, Friday is preparation for the match, Saturday another game."I make sure the players have at least two days off from football each week. This is the pact I made with the players on the first day: I trust you. I'll explain a little football ideas every now and then, as long as you give me everything."It appears that Ranieri's relaxed approach even stretches to the training ground canteen, even though his introduction was a shock. Foxes closer to title without playing"Sometimes we sit at the dinner table and I am frightened at how much they eat. I've never seen players so hungry! The first few times I was surprised, then I learned to smile. If they run this hard, they can eat what they like," he said."In England they are aware they're young, healthy and in a great job. It would be stupid to waste all that. When they train, they always put in the same effort as a match. I never once had to tell someone off for being lazy."Leicester have won admirers for their energy and commitment, with talented stars such as striker Jamie Vardy and winger Riyad Mahrez supplemented by the solidity and discipline of midfielder N'Golo Kante and defender Robert Huth.They also seem to be thriving on the challenge of upsetting the odds, with Austrian international Christian Fuchs even recently admitting: "We're just having fun."And Ranieri, 64, has admitted that a relaxed dressing room is the key to their astonishing campaign."They so need to be relaxed and not harassed. They expect calm and respect in the dressing room, so if you want to be a prima donna, they won't forgive you for it," he said."I always tell my players to find the fire within themselves. A chance like this will never come round again. Seek that fire, don't be ashamed of it. And they are not ashamed, if anything they demand to dream."So can Leicester win the title?"I don't know, but it's fantastic that we've earned the question. When I arrived the chairman asked me for 24 points by Christmas - we got 37 or 39, I can't remember how many. And we are still up there now," said Ranieri."In an era when money counts for everything, I think we give hope to everybody."