It remains unclear who will conduct the probe, which seems in the control of CSA chief executive Haroon Lorgat to the extent that even board members lack information.Insiders say whoever runs the review will be independent. Former Springbok captain and manager Morne du Plessis confirmed he was approached to run the investigation but turned down the offer.It is not known whether the findings will be made public. But the sports ministry expects to hear the outcome.Du Plessis, who presided over the life skills programme that was part of Herschelle Gibbs' rehabilitation following the discovery of his involvement in match-fixing in 2000, said Lorgat had asked him to do the job.SA crashed out of the running for a place in the knockout rounds before they had completed their first-round matches for only the second time in the 18 World Cups, Champions Trophies and World T20s they have contested.Only England had a higher batting run rate than SA among the 10 teams in the group stage at the WT20. But only three attacks were more expensive than SA's.Faf du Plessis' men returned home to a storm of questioning. Lorgat calmed that by promising an investigation. The findings are likely to be presented at the CSA board meeting in the second week in May."The memo (to board members) does not specify any dates, but it does say it's going to be independent and that it will happen before the sub-committees meet this month," a high-ranking administrator said."It will start within the next 10 days or so, and it will involve people who have played cricket at a high level and not people who are currently involved with CSA."Another stalwart administrator concurred: "They're pushing to have it done shortly. The wheels are in motion. It's definitely happening."Despite their seniority, neither knew who would be conducting the review. Both said Lorgat was steering the process.Lorgat did not respond when asked what the probe will entail, when it will be completed and how the findings will be made public.Asked the same questions, CSA president Chris Nenzani said: "A media release will be made in due course once we have covered all the necessary bases."CSA's lead independent director, Norman Arendse, said: "I don't have any of the details but I'm sure the CEO (Lorgat) will make an announcement shortly."Despite the official silence it seems the suits are asking themselves similar questions as other South Africans. As one of them put it: "Every one of our players is good enough, so why aren't we winning World Cups? Maybe it's not a cricketing issue."Would CSA release the results of the investigation?"They're pretty transparent at the moment, so I'm sure they will."Regardless, sports minister Fikile Mbalula expects a report once the questions are answered."Minsters don't get involved in an independent process unless they are invited, and CSA have not sent that through," Mbalula's spokesman, Esethu Hasane, said. "So the minister trusts that CSA have the competency to deal with this issue."But at the conclusion of the review CSA will report to the ministry. That is when the minister will get involved. On any review or investigation, they report to the minister." Note: This story was out of date at the time we published, for which we apologise to both Cricket South Africa and to our readers. CSA sent out a press release on Saturday. Although our reporter filed an updated story, this was not used.