So a few years ago, when my house needed a new roof, I resorted to desperate measures and decided that if my house wanted to live under my (leaking) roof, it was going to have to get a job and chip in. So I put my home up for rent on Airbnb.So far (touch wood) it's mostly been overwhelmingly positive. Although there was that one time two guys from the US in their 20s rocked up at 5pm one Thursday for 10 days. By 7pm they had three women (who may or may not have been hookers) over, and by 4am the party was in full swing. I remember being amazed at how quickly they'd managed to procure new friends. And thinking how greedy it was to have three girls over when there were only two of them, how's that maths going to work? I had to ask them to leave the next day, and Airbnb gave me enough compensation to repair everything they broke, burn and replace everything they touched, and invest in new mattresses for every room. Absence makes the texts grow dirtySo being an Airbnb convert, this item in the news caught my eye. Did you know there's also now a KinkBNB? It's just like Airbnb, same principle, same premise, same practices; well, not entirely the same practices. Say you're the kind of person who has particular proclivities; now you don't need to leave your gimp mask at home when you travel.KinkBNB is a "Sex positive homesharing community" where you can book your kinky holiday, whips and chains included. Say you're looking for a two-bedroom, two-bathroom house close to the Waterfont and public transport with views, easy access to beaches and a sex dungeon, then KinkBNB probably has what you're looking for, plus nipple clamps.The co-founder, Ryan Galiotto, told The Huffington Post, "We want to help people explore themselves." If that's not a euphemism for masturbation then I don't know what is.The whole thing started as a bit of a joke, but then their first 100 users signed up through word of mouth, and the rest is a fairy-tale made up of safe words and cock rings.The business model seems to be a lucrative one, with a growing database of kinky hosts in dozens of locations around the world. Look, I won't be turning my garage into a play pen for adults who like to wear nappies any time soon, but I do have a basement afflicted by quite a bit of damp, a funny smell, and an odd dripping sound that I've been struggling to locate, which may appeal to someone who gets turned on by being tortured. So perhaps I need to be more open-minded about this whole KinkBNB thing. After all, my house is going to need a new paint job any day now.E-mail the author of this article, Paige Nick, at amillionmilesfromnormal@gmail.com or find her on twitter @paigen