No disrespect to Mrs Sangweni. She is used to playing second fiddle.As recent as December, their nuptials were put on the backburner when hubby-to-be chose to defend the club's honour in the Confederation of African Football Confed Cup final.Mrs S would have greeted the news of her husband prematurely calling time on his 16-year professional career (due to an injury-induced early retirement) with a wall-to-wall smile.But she still has stiff competition for his affection and undivided attention back home in Dondotha, in the hilly countryside of eMpangeni, north-eastern of KwaZulu-Natal.'SHAKES UNFIT TO COACH BAFANA'From one beast in particular, Sukasambe."I called it Sukasambe because when that bull comes, everyone makes way," explains Sangweni. "It's snow white, with no single mark. It is special".Ubuhle bendoda izinkomo zayo (a man's wealth is defined by his livestock) goes an isiZulu idiom. Sangweni has them a dime a dozen. He is no Mr Jones from Animal Farm but he has a dime a dozen of impahla (livestock). Cattle. Goats. Chickens. You name it - Sangweni has got it."They're not mine. They belong to my family. A man works for his family, so that your children will not suffer when you die."Cue his teammates who collect cars, cars and more cars. Being flashy and trendy is not the preoccupation of the 34-year-old who moves to the beat of maskandi artist Thokozani "Somnandi" Langa. Devotion is his inclination."You must know who you are when you leave home. Never seek to impress other people. You must focus on your work. I came to Joburg to do a job for Pirates."The Ghost wants to win. They use their hard-earned cash to buy tickets to watch us. Our job is to work hard to make them happy."That work ethic saw him collecting a catalogue of gold medals. The maiden was the MTN8 he won on the night he ranks as the most memorable of his career when his then team, Arrows, annihilated Ajax Cape Town 6-0 at Orlando Stadium."My first-ever trophy. I won it with a special team, with Manqoba Mngqithi, a brilliant coach. We had just lost Rocky Madlala (late Arrows director) who scouted most of the players who won that cup."In a fitting tribute to Madlala, brother to current club chairman Mato, players displayed his pictures with each celebration of the half a dozen goals.It heralded a silverware-laden six-year stay at Pirates: two league and MTN8 titles, Nedbank Cup, Telkom Knockout plus two Caf cup finals.Brotherhood bonds were formed at Bucs as the team claimed a historic domestic double treble and crisscrossed the continent. Declaring his love for all his teammates, he singles out one man, "Lucky Lekgwathi."As captain and vice-captain, Lekgwathi and Sangweni formed one of the most impenetrable central defensive pairings of the Premier Soccer League era.Only two horses in this PSL race"I have all the respect in the world for Lekgwathi. I will go to war with him any time, any day. I'd die for him. We played to bring glory to Pirates."He highlights coaches Khabo Zondo and Mngqithi for harnessing his tactical intelligence to enhancing his raw natural ability.Zondo "had complete trust in me as a youngster at Arrows" and Mngqithi "because he has a beautiful football brain". Football will tell a tale of Sangweni as an assured defender at Arrows who blossomed at Bucs with brainy defending that graduated to brawny when the opponent demanded. Neymar felt his steely tackle and steered clear of Nsimbi (Iron) during a Brazil-Bafana Bafana friendly in Sao Paolo in 2012.Did they really have to call a press conference for his retirement, some wondered? Hell yes. It was making a statement about the meaning of Sangweni to Pirates, to football, to life. Kaizer Chiefs was the desired destination for the man who started playing for his uncle's team Royal Chiefs (amateur) and moved to Golden Chiefs (Castle Regional), Bongani FC (Vodacom League), Nathi Lions (formerly Uthukela in the National First Division.) Pirates got him because "Irvin Khoza came to Durban. I was in Empangeni. He booked my flight tickets for the next day. My late mother said I must always listen to Sis Mato. She said I must go to Pirates. You may want something, but God and your ancestors may have a different plan for you. I have no regrets about Chiefs."bbk@sundaytimes.co.za