Wits, who sacrificed their place in the Caf Confederation Cup by throwing their first round tie against Tanzania's Azam to concentrate on trying to win either the Premier Soccer League or Nedbank Cup, now appear destined to win neither.Their goalless draw against least favourite opponents this season Stars at Bidvest Stadium last week saw Wits slip to an intimidating six points behind Mamelodi Sundowns in the PSL race. Goble Park attracts a small crowd of a few thousand. It's a quite picturesque, pleasant place to watch football, especially now that its notorious pitch has improved.The two sides, though, served up a quarterfinal that for the large part was as languid as the beating of drums and singing from Stars' small band of fans enjoying the shade under trees in a corner of the open stand. Both sides' performance in the final third was as laid-back.Apart from holding Wits last week with 10 men, Stars also impressed in a 1-0 defeat against in-form Orlando Pirates at Orlando Stadium, their match before. Their return to Bethlehem brought a deserved cup-tie win.As with last week's encounter, Stars edged the early advantage over a Wits side who were flat in the first half.The Clever Boys, though, could have taken the lead against the run of play four minutes before the break. Stars goalkeeper Johnny Mathole hesitated a moment coming out to an innocuous ball up-field, allowing the alert James Keene a touch that looped wide.It had been a slow first half.Wits came early out of the change rooms, where the senior players were animated in trying to key the Students up. But it was Stars who should have been 2-0 up quickly. Almost from the kickoff Lucky Mohomi played Bokang Tlhone in on the left. He struck the upright. Then Ayanda Nkosi was through down the left with Venter inside him, drew Moeneeb Josephs like a rugby centre and passed inside, but in front of his teammate, spurning what would have been a goal.Wits, too good a combination to cede their season's trophy hopes easily, worked their way back into the game.From a long throw Bongani Khumalo should have done better than steering wide. Sifiso Hlanti's swerving free kick had Mathole diving for a stop.Early in extra time Wits had a penalty appeal turned down by referee Robert Smith when Henrico Botes was clattered down by Justice Chabalala. Klate then scythed a side-footed shot that had Mathole at full stretch. Vilakazi forced two saves in the second half of extra time.In the shootout Klate, Botes, Dillon Sheppard and Sibusiso Vilakazi scored for Wits. Sifiso Hlanti blasted over. Moeketsi Sekola, Mohomi, Paulus Masehe, Davies Nkausu and Nkosi were successful for Stars.Stars won 5-4 on penaltiesFree State Stars 0Bidvest Wits 0