It was not just the 3-1 margin that shook them up, but the manner of the innings defeats dished out in Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney that posed some uncomfortable questions about the state of the game down under.Former Proteas coach Mickey Arthur led Australia in the tumultuous period between Tim Nielsen's exit post the 2011 Cricket World Cup and Darren Lehmann's entry after the Argus review, which probed the performance of the Aussies. While he did not quite have the answers that Lehmann miraculously provided when he took over in 2013, Arthur said something similar to the Argus review may be for the betterment of South African cricket."South African cricket certainly needs to reassess where they need to go. They need to have a look and need to identify players that they think will be good enough to take the team forward. They will also need to allow those players to have an opportunity to succeed. You can't be chopping and changing because that creates an unstable environment," Arthur said."Australian cricket went through a period of absolute transition and having to come in and help effect those changes was a difficult thing. The changes that happened in Australian cricket put players on notice and when they're on notice, you hope to get a positive response."You then hope that you have the players you can take through." The Argus review had many recommendations but one of the most important was scheduling of the Sheffield Shield.Not too dissimilar to what Cricket South Africa did leading into the England series, CA fitted in a round of shield cricket ahead of the first test against New Zealand in the first week of November. Shield cricket was also played concurrently until December 6, which was the last round of matches before the Big Bash League.What worries Arthur is the strength of South Africa's first-class system, which served him well in his four-and-a-half year tenure. That was from 2005 to early 2010 when South Africa came to grips with the franchise system and ultimately benefited from it when they won the series in England and Australia in 2008.A diluted first-class system with warped priorities was also fingered as one of Australia's problems between 2007 and 2010 when their decline accelerated with the retirement of their golden generation.The gulf in the first-class system was brutally exposed by England and India "A" to an extent where South Africa's "A" team lost two out of three first-class games last year. They also had a high scoring drawn series against England Lions at the start of last year.With South Africa's selectors favouring South Africa "A" form, it is a return that did not send out the right messages about the state of the domestic game."International cricket is a totally different ball game and what I do worry about from what I've seen is that the domestic game is not delivering players who are ready for the demands of test cricket. You're only as good as your first-class structure. It can be good to a certain level but it needs to be a tough environment where players are developed to survive in international cricket," Arthur said.sports@timesmedia.co.za