Speaking of alcohol, English is the proud owner of innumerable expressions that describe the state in which one becomes unable to express oneself. I would give you a list of similes for drunkenness but first of all it would take up the entire page and secondly the protean Benjamin Franklin did it first.On January 6 1737, the Pennsylvania Gazette published Franklin's "Drinker's Dictionary," which contained 239 terms for inebriation. A few of these expressions are still in active use (addled, had a skinful, in his cups, intoxicated, oiled, stewed, tipsy). Most are not.This was almost 300 years ago, after all, when any out-of-character behaviour or emotion was considered with suspicion. Ben's euphemisms for drunkenness included capable, chipper, concerned, generous, glad, jolly, mellow, merry, polite, quarrelsome, religious, rich, valiant and wise.There were some exquisitely tactful ways to imply that someone was wasted: "Sir Richard has taken off his considering cap"; "He's been to a funeral"; "He spoke with his friend"; "He's been in the sun"; "He's got on his little hat"; and my favourite: "He's had a thump over the head with Samson's jawbone."There is also some poignancy here. These sayings were not invented in a fit of drunken hilarity but as euphemisms to cloak the shame of our own or other people's intoxication. It still makes for an interesting study in the development of language, however, andin this we have not been idle. It's all about pronunciation My tattered copy of Roget's Thesaurus contains just three short paragraphs under "sobriety" but there are almost two full pages dedicated to drunkenness. (Both, incidentally, appear in the section headed "morality".)If Ben Franklin were around today he'd be able to triple his list of similes for toasted, trolleyed and hammered. Every generation comes up with new terms for being under the influence, and most families have their own secret code to describe the relative who is as drunk as a wheelbarrow.You can see why lexicographers struggle to keep up with the constant flow."As drunk as a wheelbarrow", incidentally, was a very popular phrase in Franklin's day. One can understand its appeal, accompanied as it is by the image of a pie-eyed sailor trying to push a wonky barrow full of pickled barflies.Many crapulent clich s have come and gone. One of them is "as drunk as a boiled owl", a puzzling expression that as far as anyone can tell became popular in the late 1800s.No one seems able to find its exact origin, but there is still the odd tavern called "The Boiled Owl" and the term was used six times in a 1936 book by Louis Paul. A Horse in Arizona was one of 13 novels published by Paul (real name Leroi Placet) but, despite being published in Esquire and winning the O Henry prize, he made no lasting impression on the literary establishment. Perhaps his fondness for boiled owls had something to do with this.Who, I ask you, would boil an owl? And what on earth does an owl in a kettle or pot have to do with closing time at Tiger Tiger?I can understand the "wise as an owl" connection, because they are full of curiosity, always wanting to know who's who, but there is nothing in my admittedly limited knowledge of owls to suggest that they enjoy either a hot bath or a shot of J germeister.Some modern similes for drunk are equally silly. "Drunk as a skunk" rhymes, so it can get away with being nonsensical, and I suppose "drunk as a lord" has some merit in that lords have the means to order bottomless cups of claret, but "pissed as a newt" is beyond idiocy.There's a theory that the courting male newt staggers around when drunk with love for a female newt, but this does not stand up to close biological scrutiny. The Phrase Finder dismisses the sozzled newt (along with "rat-arsed" and "tight as a tick") as just another arbitrary animal saddled with the burden of human folly.Perhaps it is fitting that similes for drunkenness are devoid of logic. It should therefore follow that similes for sobriety should be clear and appropriate. Unfortunately there's the small matter of "sober as a judge"...E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.