Once upon a time, in a big city far, far away, lived a wicked witch at the top of a tall tower overlooking a forest, out of which peeped the rooftops of buildings.It was Christmas-New Year 2015/2016, and the witch (well, she wasn't so much wicked as she was grumpy) was gazing out of her tower, nestled at the foot of a hill overlooking the wonderland that is known as Johannesburg.She was astonished to see that there was no movement in the city below. Nothing was stirring. Not even a mouse. Everyone in the Kingdom of Johannesburg had left for the coast and the witch felt like she was the only person left in the city.Not a car on the roads; a few sad-looking people at restaurants. Where was the triumph of getting a table at her favourite eatery? Part of the joy was getting annoyed at having to wait in line. Where was the joy of not being seen, of not seeing friends? Some travel bloggers have more appetite than ethicsAfter much grumbling and gnashing of teeth and sighing and feeling sorry for herself, the grumpy witch realised that she, too, would have to go on holiday. So she moved off the balcony and into the dark of her cave-like tower, where she opened her magic tablet. With a wave of her hand, the incantation of a few passwords and an abracadabra, she was in the magic land of Facebook. Lo and behold, there she was, in the middle of other people's holidays.There was a parade of pictures - small, large, hippy, big-bosomed and flat-chested women in bathing costumes, sarongs, shorts, kaftans and bikinis on beaches from St Barts to Bondi, from Plett to Ballito. Selfies of tanned men with their arms around bronzed women, holding up pink cocktails, smiling broadly. Men throwing Frisbees, men carrying baskets, men carrying babies, babies having their first swim .All photographs taken in beautiful places, where the azure water seemed to glisten.The witch turned to other images in magic FB land. Friends in Israel, taking in Madame Butterfly on New Year's Eve, and visiting Judea and Haifa. Floating in the Dead Sea. Men, women and children photographed with blintzes and humus and pita bread and bowls of olives.Then there were the frozen people in Finland, in ice hotels, smiling into the camera as icicles formed on noses, posting pictures of the Aurora Borealis, the Northern Lights at the top of the world. It was amazing to see to what lengths these people went to snap selfies with the crazy swirling skies behind them.There were other cold holidays, such as in New York, skating under the giant Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center; huddled in Times Square waiting for the ball to drop and usher in the new year. And then there were the adventure holidays - extreme cycling in New Zealand, snorkelling the Great Barrier Reef. One holidaymaker posted a picture of herself and her partner easing through the crowds in Sydney to see the fireworks. There were myriad posts of Cape Town's lit-up skies, with many claiming the city had now entered the arena of international status, like London or New York, Sydney or Hong Kong .The grumpy witch sighed long and hard. And swore loudly (after all, there was no one to hear her). Next year, she said to nobody, she too would leave the forested city that was a lonely place during the festive season. She would not have another virtual holiday. She would not be lonely again. The End.