We spent New Year's day on a South Coast beach, but did not manage to litter enough to offend any of the local people. We did not litter at all, and while there was some debris on the beach as the sun sank, there was much more neatly stacked in bags in and around the carpark rubbish bin.We - two Joburg kids and I - were staying with friends at a shared beach cottage in the hamlet of Elysium, a name at once highly optimistic and accurate. The fact that it is co-owned means the owners seldom agree on any improvements or extensions or changes, so it remains a gloriously simple beach cottage: beds, rusty fans, a basic kitchen and a deck with a view of the sea. What more could you need?Oh yes, television. The kids were horrified to find none; I was delighted. They just had to play board-games, make and break Lego, and even volunteer a little concert for the adults in the evening. They could also watch vervet monkeys rampaging through the trees at dawn and running over the roof. Weekend Escape: Finding bliss in a KZN forestIt is a long while since I spent New Year's day on the beach, and I was apprehensive as I don't like crowds. But nearby Ifafa beach is a small resort, with most swimming limited to the tidal pool.The wise arrived with gazebos and umbrellas, setting themselves up for the day. Some stuck to the carpark and other lawns, where the gazebos soon boasted veritable catering kitchens with huge pots of curry and rice and bowls of carrot and pineapple salad. That and the smell of braaiing boerewors tormented us for having decided to go home for leftovers at lunch time.This, I thought, was South Africa at play, pulling out all the stops for New Year, and I loved it. I am old enough to remember a different world, and still feel a conscious pleasure at seeing black, brown and white people sharing a beach while their kids romp in the tidal pool. They were united in that most of the over-25s looked like candidates for the Tim Noakes diet, but they were comfortable in their skins.I lay on the beach and read a chapter of a book by AA Gill (Previous Convictions) in which he describes taking Jeremy Clarkson to Mykonos to explore both the beach there and the other side of his sexuality. I put down the book and looked up: there was a beach and many bodies, but apart from that were we on the same planet? This one was far more comfortable Weekend Escape: Durban's Golden Mile still sparklesWe escaped the heat and returned to swim again late in the afternoon. The smell of curry still tortured me, and now there was a sheep on the spit. We only had hairy little mangoes, the ones sold on the side of the road and which taste of childhood memories. I picked six mussels off the outside of the tidal pool wall and later cooked them for more city-kid education: they loved them.Like everyone else, we did not want to leave and every swim was the last. My lad had been eyeing the girls all day, and swimming around them like a shark. He's seven, and will clearly never see Mykonos.Eventually we left, and New Year's day was over. We'd do it all again the next day, but somehow it was not the same. It was January 2, and back to school was a bit closer.Unsworth is our travel advice columnist.