Better out than in, say elephant keepers and doctors who treat sore throats. Spit is also like elephants in that polite guests at a party do not mention the elephant in the room nor the slimy patch of sputum on the carpet.In my salad days, when I was a greenhorn in the ways of words, I used to think a "spitting image" was someone who looked just like me and was spitting mad about it (presumably because they would prefer to look like someone else, in which case they would be just an image, not a spitting one). It's all about pronunciation The Phrase Finder muses at length on the origin of "spitting image". One of the theories is that it came from "splitting image", as in to split a plank or a violin (or an elephant) into two identical halves.Another thread involves actual spit, as in this line from a 1689 play by George Farquhar: "Poor child! He's as like his own dadda as if he were spit out of his mouth."The second explanation is more plausible, given how difficult it is to tell one person's spit from another's (unless you are one of those rats specially trained to sniff out germs lurking in saliva).Let us leave spittle alone and return to greenhorns and salad days. A greenhorn is a young creature of any variety, not just a horned one, and "salad days" was coined by Shakespeare in 1606, when he had Cleopatra say: "My salad days, when I was green in judgment, cold in blood ..."Salad days have been misappropriated to mean golden years, although why anyone would consider the best years of their life the ones in which they ate lettuce is beyond me. Cleopatra was referring to a time when she was immature and squeezed her spots.According to a meme that popped up on the internet a few years ago, "immature is a word boring people use to describe fun people". Many have claimed responsibility for this fatuousness but it is not clear who first said it. It is, however, an example of the continued abuse doled out to "immature", an innocent word just biding its time until it grows up and can exact revenge. The alcoholic side of the English language"Mature" has not come in for the same kind of mistreatment. Maturity is considered dignified, to be valued even, especially in the case of cheese. And I approve of the euphemistic labelling of my preferred brand of pet food, because "mature adult" sounds so much better than "old cat".Speaking of immature, did you know that a baby oyster is called a spat? Not to be confused with sprat, which is a type of small herring (Latin name Sprattus sprattus) as well as a word used to describe a diminutive or insignificant person.A spat can also be a short-lived argument or fight. If you violently disagree with a sprat, the resulting commotion will probably turn out to be no more than a spat, because sprats are not known for their staying power.Spat is not a bad name for an immature oyster, if you think about it, because the sensation of an oyster sliding down the throat is not unlike that of second-hand spit. But if I dwell any more on that substance you might think me immature, so let's move on to puerile, a word we now use to disparage juvenile behaviour (as in those who post silly memes about immaturity). But puerile was not always an insult. It used to mean simply "youthful"."Puericulture", a word invented in the 1880s that has latterly fallen out of fashion, means "the science of bringing up healthy children". If this word had matured along with "puerile", it would now mean the cultured juvenile art of spitting in places where you shouldn't.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1