ADAM BACHER - former Proteas opener Who should open with Dean Elgar?I would go with Stephen Cook, a specialist who's been doing it for a long time. You're facing an incredible England attack: Stuart Broad is deadly accurate, James Anderson swings it both ways and Steven Finn has got height.They are not an easy proposition. You have to... leave well and not get drawn into shots. First class veterans or young batters?We need to follow the example Australia set with Chris Rogers. He wasn't the flashiest player but knew his game backwards. That guy in SA is Cook.Cook has scored many runs because he gives everything regardless of whether he's playing club or provincial cricket. Why isn't the Stiaan van Zyl- Dean Elgar combo working?I have got no doubt that Stiaan is a fantastic player but I'm not sure he's an opener.He looked pretty good in the second innings at Kingsmead but... the Indian tour hurt his confidence terribly.ALVIRO PETERSON - former Proteas opener Who should open with Dean Elgar?Stiaan van Zyl. He has only played three innings in South African conditions [as an opener] and we must give him a chance. Stiaan can take the game away from you. First-class veterans or young batters?People say Cook, Andrew Puttick and Heino Kuhn have got experience but none of them do. None of them have played a test match. Besides, the next batter in line is Rilee Rossouw. Why persist with Stiaan van Zyl partnering Dean Elgar?The selectors must discuss the following: do they go with Stiaan or with an out-and-out opener. When he's in, Stiaan can hurt attacks and offers some bowling on the side.</img>Dean Elgar seems to have secured an opening spot Image: GALLO IMAGES Dean Elgar seems to have secured an opening spot Image: GALLO IMAGES MIKE PROCTER - former Cricket South Africa convenor of selectors Who should open with Dean Elgar?I would be tempted, because of the way the team batted in Cape Town, to give Van Zyl one more shot. First-class veterans or young batters?South African players, in general, get a chance at test cricket earlier in their careers. A lot of the guys in Australia played county cricket and advanced their careers at a later stage than South Africans.In South Africa, gaps are open but in Australia players had kept their places in the past so there were no gaps.Stephen Cook is a very solid player but I'd leave that option out for the moment and try Van Zyl once more. Why persist with Van Zyl?I think Stiaan has it in his make-up to be a David Warner-type opener but when your confidence is gone you've got to get a biggish total and can't come out guns blazing.