Without warning, he emits a bloodcurdling scream reminiscent of an ejaculating walrus. (Yes, I've heard a walrus in the throes of passion. That National Geographic channel has plenty of SNVL moments.)Where people choose to alleviate their sexual tension is none of my business, although I must confess that I have somehow managed to suppress the urge to exercise my rights in public rest rooms. As a result, I am understandably wary of the dirty old geezer at the urinal and, maintaining my poker face, I give him a wide berth before taking up my position at the urinal as far from him as possible - to avoid getting caught in the crossfire, I figure. The awkward silence is finally broken 10 seconds later when he sheepishly announces that he "got nabbed by the freaking zipper". We're all gamblers in one form or anotherAnd I understood. Even though I was a complete stranger, he just couldn't leave me with my own misguided, walrus-ejaculating assumptions.We've all had to explain our situations to total strangers for no other reason than to walk away with a semblance of dignity.We've all been that patron who confidently walks into a restaurant alone and boldly requests a table for two. When the waitress shoves a menu in our face, we respond dismissively with, "I'll order when my companion gets here." Two hours (and four solo pints) later, you're that guy trying to look dignified, requesting in a clear and resounding voice, "Bill please."Waitresses being the smartarses they are, she gives you that look that prompts you to explain, "Well, I'll have you know that the only reason she stood me up is because she was hit by a Putco bus on her way here. So the joke is on you, loser. Haha!"During the second year of my studies, I forgot my wallet in my zoology laboratory locker. I realised just as I was about to board my taxi. The upshot was my having to bum taxi fare off someone on Durban's busy Russell Street taxi rank.This is when I discovered that begging is a tough skill. Especially since to the casual observer there isn't much of a visual difference between your second-year university student and your common hobo. After three hours of failure, I realised my handicap. Instead of tilting my head like a Jack Russell and putting on my best Oliver Twist voice, I felt the need to constantly explain. "It's actually a funny story. So I'm dissecting this frog, right ..."A few years ago I had to attend a funeral in Durban, and I flew out in the early hours of the Saturday morning in question. One of the best-kept secrets about Zulu funerals is that, before we enter the homestead of the bereaved after the burial, the mourners are all compelled to wash their hands in a concoction containing umswani. Now umswani, as exotic as it sounds, is just a fancy word for the exhaust water collected during the cleansing of tripe. In other words, we dunk our hands in bovine excrement - no exceptions allowed.Apparently our ancestors decreed this, and nonconformance is punishable by an eternity of being cornholed by rabid tokoloshes. Preferring my sexual liaisons consensual, I generally comply with the requirement. But in this instance my return flight to Joburg was scheduled for immediately after the funeral. Hollywood needs speech therapistsI can't make assumptions about your experience with eradicating cow-poop aromas from your hands, but in my experience I have found that nothing short of a Meryl-Streep-in-Silkwood shower does the trick. So, as we lined up to board the plane, there was a distinct 2m clearing around me.With downcast eyes, I made a beeline for my seat. Within two seconds, the lady in the next seat sat up straight, her eyeballs popping out like a chameleon's as she changed colour. First pink. Then purple. Finally a dark violet. I believe David Attenborough calls the phenomenon "camouflage".With a straight back and the defiance of King Cetshwayo, I stared ahead - daring her to make my day with indignant protest, while muttering under my breath, "This is my culture."The lady, now leaning away from me like the Tower of Pisa and holding her breath better than a scuba diver who's lost her oxygen tank, uttered not a peep as the cow-dung scent wafted about her olfactory zones and through the entire cabin.Eventually the idea of her casting aspersions on my personal hygiene became too unbearable and I turned to her."Here's the thing. I don't want to be assaulted by tokoloshes, you see ... "E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo*Ndumiso Ngcobo is on leave this week. This is a classic column of his, published in 2010.