EYESMakeup artist Alex Botha says: "Browns and taupe eyeshadows work beautifully on most skin tones. Pick two colours and blend them in an upward motion from eyelids using a brush." Blending eyeshadow into the crease of your lid has become old-fashioned: this technique is much more modern and easier to manage."And don't use white liner in the waterline," Botha advises. "It enters the room before you do." Opt for a flesh-toned liner instead - MAC Eye Kohl in Teddy is a good neutral brown to use on waterlines and to smudge on lids.A key trick to ensure that your makeup lasts longer? "Prime lids using a concealer and then set with a powder," says Botha.Great buys to try: Bobbi Brown Creamy Concealer Kit, R400, comes with a tiny pressed powder. MAC Eye Kohl in Teddy, R210. The go-to liner shade. MAC Eye Shadow in Era, R210. A soft beige hue. Smashbox Photo Finish Lash Primer, R250, lengthens lashes and ensures that mascara doesn't stray.6 time-saving buys to speed up your morning makeup routineSKINPrime, prime and prime some more to ensure your makeup last as long as your work day. Botha says: "Ideally, concealer should be sheer, but still offer coverage, and not slide by the end of the day. The way to make sure it sticks is to prep it with a pressed powder after you've applied concealer." Dermalogica Hydrablur Primer works well under eyes and around lips if you have fine lines.For on-the-go touch-ups, Botha recommends using the sponge inside a powder compact. For years we've been told to ditch this round sponge of doom, but they work wonders and also mop up excess oil.To refresh your complexion come 3pm, keep a clean makeup brush in your bag and swish it around your face to "reactivate" foundation and powder. And Botha's best blotting tip of the day: "Rizla paper! Cheap, and perfect for absorbing spots of afternoon shine."Great buys to try: Dermalogica Hydrablur Primer, R750, contains light-reflective particles to blur the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. Chanel Les Beiges Healthy Glow Foundation, R785, which launches next month after a long wait, enhances (instead of disguising) your natural complexion. Smashbox Photo Finish Primer Oil, R450, doubles as a non-greasy moisturising oil and primer. MAC Mineralize Skinfinish Natural in Medium Tan, R370, is Botha's go-to skin powder. 11 tools that'll make all the difference to your beauty routine LIPSDon't fall for the misguided trick of lining your lips in a shade darker than your lipstick to make them appear larger. "Lip liner should always be the same shade as your lipstick," says Botha. It's also a marvellous way to make your lipstick last longer.Great buys to try: L'Or al Colour Riche Lip Liner Couture in Caf de Flore, R130. One of the best formulas we've tried. Revlon ColorStay Ultimate Suede Lipstick in All Access, R189, for a glorious '90s lip. Bobbi Brown Lip Balm, R240, is great for adding moisture and a slightly pink tint.HAIRHair expert and stylist Karen van Wyngaard suggests prepping your hair by washing and drying it the night before, and saving only the styling for the morning.Sleeping on hair usually makes it sit flatter the next day, but if you wake up with a frizzy mane and that's not what you're after, try a smoothing shampoo and conditioner to reduce volume. For a super-sleek look, use smoothing drops to add extra sheen.Great buys to try: Evo Easy Tiger Straightening Balm, R335, weighs down frizz effectively. Evo Love Perpetua Shine Drops, R335, seals cuticles, leaving hair ultrasmooth.