Three weeks into 2016, I'm about ready for this year to be over. If you're feeling the same way, here's one way to mentally escape: the seventh season of US legal drama The Good Wife is back on our screens, and it looks like a cracker. The first episode gave us everything that makes The Good Wife great: snappy writing, intrigue, quirky comedy and genuine drama.The Good Wife was so-named because it started its existence profiling a fictional woman - Alicia Florrick - who stood by her philandering politician husband while he was disgraced and sent to jail. The two eventually separated, but seven seasons down the line, her husband's on the up and up and blameless old Alicia's on the skids. That's life, ladies. 'The Good Wife' stays fresh in season sixThe last season saw Alicia framed for having tried to rig her election as state's attorney by tampering with voting machines. She didn't do it, but that doesn't matter: her name is officially mud. It's clear that things in Alicia's life have taken a drastic turn for the worse. She's now trying to pick up work from the bond court, representing petty criminals who aren't poor enough to qualify for a public defender. This is assembly line justice, a far cry from her previous high-profile cases."She tried to steal an election, where else would she go?" one of her new colleagues mutters. Turns out the bar attorneys in bond court are kinda like characters in Mean Girls, all throwing "she can't sit with us" shade. Everyone is horrible to Alicia. Her former colleagues at Lockhart Gardner - now Lockhart Agos and Lee - want to see her crash and burn. That law firm has changed the surnames in its title so many times that one of their biggest expenses must be rebranding stationery.As in previous seasons, the show continues to straddle the worlds of law and politics. Alicia's husband Peter has decided he'll throw his hat into the ring to be Hillary Clinton's running-mate in the US presidential race. This is the first time the show is taking steps into the realm of current real-world events, and it'll be interesting to see how they handle the plotline. I'm holding out for a cameo appearance by Clinton herself. One of the highlights of Hillary's released e-mails was the missive she sent an aide asking her to look up the broadcast times for The Good Wife, so we already know she's a fan.Peter Florrick has made a new enemy by firing his campaign manager Eli Gold, played with magnificent panache by Alan Cumming. But Eli's never down and out for long: he's persuaded Alicia to take him on to run the "rehabilitation campaign" that will be necessary to turn her into a possible vice-president's wife. "I plan to use Alicia's rehabilitation campaign to undercut you and ultimately destroy you," he told his replacement. She laughed, as one would.The first episode's legal subplot saw a probate case taken by Alicia provide the opportunity for a clever parody of the over-use of expert witnesses in some lawsuits. The case hinged on Post-it notes stuck to various objects in a dead woman's home identifying their new owners. As lawyers battled it out, the testimony of an adhesives expert - "You're what?" asked the judge - was followed by an aerodynamics expert, followed by an industrial suction expert.If I have a quibble about the first episode, it's that there wasn't nearly enough of Alicia's old colleague Diane (Christine Baranski) in it for my taste. Baranski is one of the highlights of a show that keeps hitting the right notes.