A POP OF COLOURWe adore Chanel's bright and bold SS16 makeup collection! Aptly called LA Sunrise, it's inspired by Californian mornings filled with tangerine sunrises across a shimmering turquoise ocean. Limited-edition collections sell out fast, so if you're a fan, like us, best get in line soon. Our favourites include Cr ation Exclusive in Sunkiss Ribbon, R885, a textured blush compact with embossed Chanel ribbons, and Les 4 Ombres Tiss Beverly Hills, R775, in radiant shades of lavender and green. For a vibrant splash of colour, try Illusion d'Ombre in Griffith Green and Ocean Light eyeshadows, R475 each, and Le Vernis in Sunrise Trip, R365, a vivid purple-blue hue for your nails.TURN UP THE HEATFor the sleekest hairstyles and bounciest curls with each use, ghd stylers never disappoint. Now the brand has branched into treatment products, launching with ghd Advanced Split End Therapy, R320, which fortifies damaged ends for up to 10 washes. Apply 10ml to towel-dried hair, blow-dry completely and then use your styler to seal in the product, which is activated by heat from the styler. Here's to a year of strong, protected hair!How to keep your skin looking gorgeous all summer longMIRACLE OILElizabeth Arden's Eight Hour Cream Skin Protectant is one of the best -known skin balms for chapped lips, heels and dry skin, and this year, the brand launched another multitasker, Eight Hour Cream All-Over Miracle Oil, R385. A thin layer massaged into a clean, dry face will make skin look healthy and radiant. It 's rich in grape-seed, vitamin E, sunflower-seed and olive-avocado oils, which don't clog pores. We like to use Eight Hour Cream All-Over Miracle Oil on hair to nourish parched strands, and to hydrate skin after a bath to lock in moisture for eight to 12 hours. LET IT SNOWIf pigmentation is your biggest woe, you probably find that January heat makes it worse. Using an SPF is a must to prevent future dark spots, and a treatment serum should be on your list of beauty buys this month.Diorsnow Anti-Spot Serum, R1,665, corrects dark spots and evens out colour imperfections, which unifies overall facial skin texture. Key to the softly scented serum's formula is the inclusion of edelweiss, a plant that grows and flourishes in harsh environments such as the icy Swiss mountains, where Dior harvests its supply. 11 tools that'll make all the difference to your beauty routine GOLDEN EYECalling all fans of strong, aromatic fragrances in search of a new signature scent. This golden orb, Bvlgari Goldea EDP, R1,890 for 100ml, is the brand's latest offering, with soft, fruity top notes from orange blossom and raspberry. A floral explosion of jasmine petals and ylang-ylang complements the punchy base, described by Bvlgari as a "royal ambery musk with a trail of golden patchouli and Egyptian papyrus". MATCHY-MATCHYKate Moss is the face and cocreator of Rimmel's new neutral collection of matching lipsticks and nail colours. The range includes six new lipstick shades of Lasting Finish by Kate, R90 each, in pink to olive neutrals. The Salon Pro with Lycra by Kate, R60 each, includes nail polishes in 127 Gentle Kiss (beige); 237 Soul Session (light pink exclusive to Foschini); 128 Mystify Me (beige grey); 129 Sensual Spice (deep cinnamon), and 126 Bare Yourself (cream beige), with smart brushes to make application a dream. 