BEAUTY LOOKS WE LOVEDChanelChanel s creative director Karl Lagerfeld makes sure his audience has the finest in couture experiences by showcasing unique themes each season. This year the Grand Palais took on an oriental air with a Japanese style 'dolls house' (pictured above) constructed in the space surrounded by a Zen garden. it reportedly took eight days to build! The models showcased glorious graphic liner (an ode to traditional Chinese calligraphy perhaps?) and low chignons at the base of their necks - dubbed affectionately 'Chanel croissants'.A photo posted by (@thegoldedit) on Jan 28, 2016 at 3:42pm PST Atelier VersacePat McGrath was the creator of the serious smoky eyes at this show, offset by perfectly flawless skin. The eye had a slightly grungy effect, with tiny flecks of eyeshadow allowed to settle and blend just below the model's waterlines. Their natural beauty was obvious and their hair had a slightly bohemian feel. A photo posted by Versace (@versace_official) on Jan 24, 2016 at 9:01am PST ValentinoOnce more Pat McGrath keyed the beauty looks for the Valentino show. She kept it crisp and clean: simple, natural beauty with an evident flush of peachy blusher. And those Medusa meets Daenerys Targaryen head pieces? Yes please!A photo posted by Valentino (@maisonvalentino) on Jan 27, 2016 at 7:42am PST Jean Paul GaultierBeauty was bold at this show. Strong, lacquered lips and loud, wild hair was the order of the day. Rumor has it each girl was given their own unique look to compliment what mama gave them - some sexy and sophisticated, others wild and grungy. Punk meets pretty indeed.A photo posted by Jean Paul Gaultier (@jpgaultierofficial) on Jan 27, 2016 at 10:17am PST FASHION FAVOURITESViktor &amp; RolfViktor &amp; Rolf aren t known for creating the most wearable clothing, but rather for designing works of art to walk the runway. This year the designer duo took inspiration from Picasso and showed a collection of imaginative pieces that looked like sculptures.A photo posted by Viktor&amp;Rolf (@viktor_and_rolf) on Jan 29, 2016 at 3:05am PSTA photo posted by Viktor&amp;Rolf (@viktor_and_rolf) on Jan 28, 2016 at 10:15am PST Zuhair MuradZuhair Murad s exquisitely detailed dresses are always a crowd-pleaser. This year he paired blush pink hues with delicate floral details to create an array of feminine fantasies. A photo posted by Haute Couture (@instahautecouture) on Jan 28, 2016 at 10:42pm PSTThe real showstopper, however, was Murad's bridal gown.A photo posted by I.S. Latvian blogger (@justfashionworld) on Jan 28, 2016 at 3:17pm PST Giambattista ValliGiambattista Valli really knows how to make a statement on the catwalk. We're sure there were a few gasps of wonder when this red dress - which was as flamboyant as it was enormous - sashayed down the runway.A photo posted by ModeSens (@modesensfashion) on Jan 28, 2016 at 9:09pm PST Elie SaabElie Saab always exceeds expectations and this year was no different when he sent a dreamy silver army of gowns down the catwalk.A photo posted by ELIE SAAB (@eliesaabworld) on Jan 27, 2016 at 9:18am PST A video posted by ELIE SAAB (@eliesaabworld) on Jan 27, 2016 at 11:30am PST