BEFORE WORKING OUT REMOVE YOUR MAKEUPBefore rushing off to your 6pm Vinyasa class to embrace that downward-facing dog, take a moment to remove the day's makeup. Pippa Lovemore, Clarins SA group PR co-ordinator, says: "Sweating, releasing toxins, an increase of oxygen and blood to the skin - these are all brilliant, but most effective with bare skin. When you train, you sweat, enlarging pores and making perfect little pockets for dirt and grime to be trapped with makeup. Some people may break out, others may just see congested pores, blackheads and a dull skin tone." The simple solution? "Remove makeup - foundation, bronzer, blush, powder, etc - and if you feel too exposed, use a little tinted moisturiser to get you through. Eye makeup can be left on, but a 75-minute heated yoga class or spinning session may leave you with panda eyes."For a quick fix, use a pre-moistened wipe for a fresh face.Beauty buys to try: Gentle Skin Cleansing Cloths, R99, for sensitive skin. Johnson's Daily Essentials Refreshing Facial Cleansing Wipes, R50. An effective basic to always keep on hand. Neutrogena Makeup Remover Cleansing Towelettes, R85. Supersoft wipes with a formula that also removes waterproof mascara. Savvy beauty strategies to beat cellulite (without hitting the gym)PROTECT YOUR SKIN AND HAIRPrefer exercising in the great outdoors? Remember to protect your skin from sun and pollution - and your hair, too, if you swim.Beauty buys to try: Invisibobble Hair Bands, R80 for three, don't tug or break hair strands, so you can rock a top knot that won't budge while you run. Uriage Bariesun Invisible Stick SPF50+, R155. Great for applying sun protection on specific areas, such as your nose, ears and scalp, without getting your hands dirty. Philip Kingsley Swimcap, R549, is like a comb-through conditioner with UV filters that protect hair from chlorine and salt water. WHILE WORKING OUT Do your face a favour and keep a facial mist on hand. It cools irritated skin and the water itself has multiple skincare benefits.Beauty buys to try: Av ne Thermal Spring Water, R150 for 150ml. The spray is ultrafine, which makes a spritz feel like a real misting experience. Uriage Thermal Water, R140 for 150ml, undergoes a 75-year natural filtration process before it's bottled at its source in the French Alps. Chanel Hydra Beauty Essence Mist, R870 for 50ml. The mist of choice if you train at Virgin Active Alice Lane. AFTER WORKING OUT Your post-workout routine is just as important as your pre-gym one, so don't skip a good cleanse and tone, along with a good hydrating serum to boost moisture levels that have been lost and to keep skin plump. Then once you've tapped into your inner glow, capitalise on your hard work with a post-workout beauty treat.Beauty buys to try: Clarins HydraQuench Intensive Serum Bi-Phase, R600, is great for all skin types and ages. Sorbet BB cream, R100. Mix a blob of this with a light moisturiser for sheer, even coverage that gives you radiant skin. Smashbox Photo Finish Primer Oil, R450. An oil slick waiting to happen? Wrong. Your skin will drink this up, leaving it glowing and smooth. Smashbox pro-artist Will Malherbe suggests adding a drop to your foundation before applying for a more sheer coverage. The primer element of the oil leaves your face looking like the perfect canvas. Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream All-Over Miracle Oil, R385, a non-greasy oil that keeps skin supple and moisturised. Dermalogica Redness Relief Primer SPF 20, R695. Helps relieve post-workout redness owing to its green tinge, and contains soothing ingredients such as oat kernel extract to ease itching or discomfort. It also makes makeup application a dream.