As with so many acts of random violence, it came out of nowhere. On the wrong London bus on the wrong Sunday, I rubbed up the wrong girl gang and paid for it with a brutal attack. Battered and robbed of my belongings, I also felt betrayed by the lack of help from the many witnesses of the daytime assault.The beating was brief, but the effects lasted well beyond the time it took for my bones to heal. I thought a self-defence course might help to rebuild my confidence but I found the venues unappealing, reinforcing my feelings of being a "victim" rather than helping me to shake them.Years later, having swept my fears under the carpet, I booked in to COMO Shambhala Estate in Bali, Indonesia, a sanctuary for those seeking to cleanse and regenerate. With an experienced martial arts instructor, I hoped for an experience that would heal old scars and give me a grounding in self defence. Beachside bliss off the beaten track in BaliThe pace of life changes as you arrive at Shambhala. The scent of frangipani, tuberose and ylang-ylang mingles with birdsong and water. Paths criss-cross the rambling estate, watched over by stone Hindu gods with offerings of hibiscus flowers, rice and incense at their feet.I was booked into a wellness programme which packaged daily yoga, Pilates, aqua therapy, fitness classes and full board. Included were private training sessions, and I plumped for a course with David Melladew, a consultant in oriental medicine and a specialist in martial arts.Despite his slight build and gentle demeanour, David exuded restrained power. A teacher of qigong - an ancient Chinese practice with roots in martial arts and meditation, used to harness and cultivate a person's qi (chi) or "life energy" - he began our first class with flowing body movements to help control our breathing. As I mimicked his movements, a breeze drifted through the teak bale, carrying the scent of gardenias.With my breath controlled and my "dantian" or core engaged, I was introduced to faster moves and taught a simple movement to free myself from a wrist grab. Then the gloves and mitts came out and I was throwing punches at somebody for the first time in my life.My classes with David, combined with the other activities, brought a swift and dramatic improvement in my posture, core strength and body confidence. While qigong teaches basic self-defence moves, it primarily builds and harnesses inner strength and vitality, making a person appear less vulnerable and reducing their chances of being attackedEach day, I followed the path along the banks of the Ayung River for a swim in the terraced spring pools. I luxuriated in traditional Balinese massages and spent balmy evenings feasting on healthy haute cuisine.As part of my package, I was invited to select a "guided challenge" and chose a dawn visit to Bali's highest temple, Penulisan, followed by a three-hour cycle ride. My guide, Made, made it the morning of a lifetime. Kneeling in the ancient temple, he taught me the meaning behind the floral and edible offerings made by the Balinese to their Hindu gods.Cycling down from the temple, we passed green rice paddies, sipped ginger tea at a roadside warung (caf ) and waved at beaming children flying kites. Carefree, content, healthy and strong, I was a million miles away from that London bus - physically and mentally.- The Sunday Telegraph IF YOU GO... A seven-night stay at Bali's COMO Shambhala Estate includes full board and six days on the "Be Active" programme, with fitness assessments, wellness consultations, spa treatments, personal training sessions, guided excursions and group activities such as yoga, Pilates and bike rides. Also included are transfers to Denpasar International airport.Rates start from $748, excluding flights. See comoshambhala.com for more information.