I know what size fly eggs are because the heat wave, coupled with a small dip in the efficacy of garbage removal, caused a plague of flies. Either that or we are being punished for something. The feast of seasonFlies lay eggs, and out of the eggs come maggots, and maggots can place strain on a relationship when one person locks herself in the bedroom because she can't bear the sight of the creatures and the other has to locate the source of the live risotto on the kitchen floor (the mother lode was in the dustbin) and remove the hatchlings single-handedly while listening to sounds of retching and cries of "Are they gone yet?" coming from the other side of the bedroom door.Love is being able to pick up a maggot without flinching, if you ask me. There was a lot of love in our house last week. From my place of safety in the bedroom I could feel the love emanating from the kitchen, where a gross of little white grubs writhed on the white tiles. If you flew over a nudist resort in Iceland on a public holiday, that's what it would look like from the air.A maggot is sometimes called a "grub". This noun, says the Online Etymology Dictionary, was used in the 15th century to describe a dwarf or someone of short stature. The verb comes from another place entirely. "To grub", meaning to dig around in the dirt, is from the German word gr beln, "to search" or "to ponder".You might think that "grubby" had something to do with the dirty digging kind of grub, but its original meaning was "stunted" or "infested with grubs". I assure you my kitchen was not grubby in the modern idiom, but in the archaic sense of the word it most certainly was."Grubstreet" (often followed by the word "rag") denotes a publication that concerns itself with paltry gossip. Grubstreet has nothing to do with dwarves, dirt or maggots - it was the name of an actual road in London in the 1620s. Samuel Johnson wrote that it was a street "much inhabited by writers of small histories, dictionaries, and temporary poems; whence any mean production is called grubstreet". (What is a temporary poem, I wonder? Does it stop rhyming at midnight?)In 1830 Grubstreet was renamed Milton Street and in the 1970s it disappeared beneath the bulk of the Barbican centre, which is now home to the Royal Shakespeare Company. So every maggot has its day, you could say.Shakespeare, who died 400 years ago this April, did not write much about maggots, although there must have been loads of them crawling about his Globe, given the striking nature of Elizabethan refuse collectors. No escape, goatImagine if Hamlet had been distracted from his soliloquy by the sight of an errant maggot shuffling off to hide behind his dustbin. "To sleep, perchance to dream ... hey, there's the grub!"But enough of dreary Danes. The Germans, who gave us grubbing, also donated the lovely word Gr belsucht. In English, grubelsucht is a psychiatric disorder that causes the sufferer to obsessively query even the simplest facts. Must be uncomfortable.Then there is the condition called "mulligrubs" - a fit of the blues. Dealing with grubs gives me the mulligrubs. It makes me quite mawkish, in fact. "Mawkish" comes from the Middle English "mawke", a maggot.Today when we call something mawkish (any Nicholas Sparks story) we mean it is so sentimental as to be quite sickly, but mawkish used to imply nausea without any sentimentality involved, like the feeling you get when you find a maggot floating in your tea.Not everyone dislikes maggots. Sparrows love them. The use of "grub" as slang for food comes from greedy birds who like nothing better than a dish full of squirming maggots. They do, after all, have very small brains.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.