1. AloesPerfect for the novice gardener, aloes are easy to grow and can withstand dry conditions. The aloe is a succulent, so it stores water in its leaves, giving it a thick and fleshy appearance. Its amazingly diverse foliage and floral display make it a great choice for terrariums. Create an instant indoor garden with trendy pot plants2. OrchidsCymbidium and Phalaenopsis are the most common orchid varieties found in South Africa. Sufficient light will ensure orchids produce an abundance of beautiful blooms, while insufficient light may result in a non-flowering plant. One of the greatest challenges orchid-growers face is figuring out when and how much to water their plant. The general rule of thumb is to water the plant when it is completely dry, and to water thoroughly; water should pour out from the bottom of the pot.3. LavenderFill your home with the sweet scent of lavender by growing this fragrant plant indoors. Lavender loves sunlight, so place your plant on a sunny windowsill. Because the plant thrives in dry conditions, ensure it has adequate drainage to avoid soggy soil.4. Weeping fig/ficus treeThis elegant-looking houseplant, which hails from the rain forests of South Asia, has soft branches and glossy leaves that droop downwards from woody stems. It is a slow-growing tree, but can reach a height of 3m indoors. A weeping fig will do well when placed in a space that is warm and damp essentially emulating its natural environment. Also, be careful not to under or overwater the plant; place in well-draining soil and water when the top layers of soil are dry.5. English ivyOne of the top indoor plants for air purification, English ivy is excellent at absorbing formaldehyde, sometimes found in building materials. It grows well in hanging baskets and fares well in rooms with minimal sunlight. The secrets to growing cyclamen6. Dwarf fruit treesWhat better way to treat the senses than with a selection of indoor fruit trees? From dwarf banana, dwarf apple and dwarf peach to lemon and lime, there is a huge variety to choose from. Position them in spaces where they will obtain direct sunlight for at least five to six hours each day. Remember to water regularly; during the summer months you may need to water as often as twice a day.7. Fiddle-leaf figWith large, flat leaves, the fiddle-leaf fig has a striking appearance, which can completely transform the look and feel of a room. Keep your fiddle-leaf in good condition by positioning it in bright, indirect sunlight, and watering it only when the top 2,5cm of soil is dry. Also remember to check the foliage regularly for pests, as figs are susceptible to infestation.8. Snake plantThis indigenous plant, also known as mother-in-law s tongue , has long, pointed leaves that are green in colour with yellow edges. Known as one of the hardiest indoor plants, the snake plant copes well in low light levels and with minimal watering.