Then I remembered someone saying he had noticed the odd phenomenon of Zimbabweans who, when they go home in December, take all they own, including furniture - and return with the same stuff in January. Someone else said these were people who live in informal settlements, where burglary is so rife that it's best to leave with all one's belongings in December. Explaining awkward situations to strangers is, well, awkwardA friend told me some folks even take the corrugated iron used to construct their shacks. I was flabbergasted. Do people really steal people's houses? And then I hit the back of my head to snap out of it. Duh! - of course thieves will steal a house if they can.I recently went back to my Unit 1 North 'hood in Mpumalanga Township, Hammarsdale, and discovered that people had stolen half of the KwaSishi shopping centre. I'm not making this up. They've stolen all the internal fixtures and stripped it of bricks. I took pictures of two guys with a wheelbarrow, wheeling away a load of bricks.The intricacies of theft are fascinating, mostly because things are not as cut and dried as one might think. Some time in the '90s I was enjoying a cold one at a tavern in Durban with my friend Dinesh. We were talking about a road trip to Joburg when a portly Afrikaans-speaking gentleman interrupted us to regale us with the fact that "back in the old days" Indians were banned from setting foot in the "Orange Free State".He gave a deep chuckle: "This is just a joke, you see, but the Afrikaners in the Free State didn't trust you Indian fellows. They believed an Indian could steal the milk out of your tea."Without looking up from his draught, Dinesh remarked demurely: "I guess the poor Indians were stealing milk from tea because there was nothing left to steal after you stole the whole of the Free State," before adding: "This is a joke, you see." Ouch.It's an interesting point Dinesh brought up. Among the many amazing things people have stolen throughout history, land has got to be one of the most amazing.I'm just imagining the bloke with corrugated iron sheets returning to his plotto find someone else has built another shack there. That's what must have happened to our nomadic forebears when they returned from their wanderings to find towns where they once lived.Part of the issue with theft is the language used to describe it. I remember former KwaZulu-Natal premier Dr Frank Mdlalose, while being interviewed about civil service corruption, using the phrase "pilfering of office supplies". I had to look up the meaning of "pilfering". In Zulu we have only two words for theft: ukuntshontsha and ukweba, and both are extremely harsh. We don't have degrees of theft, you see.And I guess that's how people can steal entire countries and call it "colonisation" or "annexation". Think about it: what Hitler did to Poland in 1939 was like someone hijacking you in your driveway and proceeding to move into your house, asking you to serve them tea in your finest china.One of my neighbours blew my mind recently when he told me there were grass thieves among us. Apparently, while he slept someone had stolen his lawn. We're all gamblers in one form or anotherDuring a burglary at my Pinetown flat in the '90s, the thieves got away with a pair of tattered boxer shorts I wore for luck when Chiefs faced Sundowns. On another occasion, the burglars not only took my TV and stereo, they opened the fridge and helped themselves to a fried chicken drumstick I was saving for the morning after.And my brother Mxolisi once returned home and before he could even unpack his suitcase, burglars struck and got away with his entire wardrobe. What was fascinating, though, is that when he woke up he was shivering because they had made off with his duvet and - wait for it - the pillowcase he was resting his head on. I guess they needed more bags to stuff things into.I'm sure Thabo Mbeki can identify. His official residence was once burgled and among the things stolen were some of his whiskies. If he's anything like me, that's the part that would make him stark raving mad. I mean, what kind of insolent savage steals another man's libations?But I don't think we should feel too bad about humanity's thieving ways. We're not alone. Apparently, house theft was so rife among turtles and snails some 500-million years ago that natural selection bestowed upon them houses attached to their bodies.I have faith in human innovation. I think that before my innings is up, we will have houses you can fold and stuff in your car boot - to avoid dragging corrugated iron sheets across Beit Bridge.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo*Ndumiso Ngcobo is on leave this week. This is a classic column of his, published in 2010.