It is a queue in which you can have a mobile coffee date with a friend. She flinches at the sight of the snake, which she says is not there the other 11 months of the year. She knows. She often loses her handbag.But let me tell you about this snaking queue. It is a hopeful, collective animal.January nearly killed our beginning-of-the-year spirit. We all know why. Sparrows, hearts, horseracing events are usually harmless. This year they made people mad. People who were chilling at home with more social media time than usual. And they added to the torrid conversation.But let me tell you about the snake at home affairs.There is biltong, McDonald's and Candy Crush in this queue. They are shared. Along with stories, laughs. #Queuemustfall jokes. Survivor stories. A man pumps his fist in mock glory: "Four hours. We did it. You can do it!" New Year's beachgoers deserve a proudly South African smileA lady in a pristine white dress and a fancy red umbrella shares her shade with me, and my pram. Positive shade, not the throwing kind.We commiserate with the young mother who is turned away after queuing for hours because she needs another piece of paper she forgot at the public hospital post partum. "What? You forgot to get that form shortly after bringing life into the world? What silliness. Back to Rahima Moosa!"We rush to aid a fainter. Families, singles, friends, sons and dads.We chat. We read. We complain, together, about the heat and the slow official who declares she only has "one body and two arms". Tea break stills the snake for as long as it takes to dunk an Ouma.We take turns to sit. Without judgment. A giant man wears a felt pixie hat, overalls and carries his wife's shiny red bag. Young boys of all colours are in uniform. Narrow ankles, baggy bottom trackpants, T-shirts that look a size too small and crew cut meets long fringe. Universal attitude. They need IDs for driver's licences, maybe? Some are in slops. A woman is in a wedding dress with full retinue in tow.A sleepy couple arrives at 11am to ask, "Is the queue for passports?" They scowl and leave. Thailand will have to wait.You should stay! It's fun in the queue. We are all in it. Together. We are not killing each other. We are equally disgruntled but accepting. The snake is chilled. No sparrows. No tweets. Just carrying on, and slowly, slowly moving forward.