In fact, the England cricket team's most recognisable supporters are far more men of the manor than the madhouse."It's more like Dad's Army."The youngsters who want to travel don't have the time or the money. It's become a bucket-list thing for some folks who have just retired," said the group's managing director Paul Burnham about an organisation that has more than 3000 first class or paid-up members who part with about R600 per annum for the privilege. Joburg's Bullring reigns supreme"Our club-class members of 25000 don't pay but they get our e-mails. We have a Facebook community of nearly 100000. On Twitter, we have a following of around 65000."We have linked up with the biggest travel agency in the world and we do merchandising. Ultimately, though, we are about supporting England no matter what."Indeed, it was in the depths of despair Down Under that the Barmy Army has its roots.Outplayed in Australia on their 1994/95 Ashes tour, some England fans drowned their sorrow in song, but soon a movement was born."Barmy Army is actually a chant," explained Burnham."Its DNA is definitely in football. It was used in a positive way but sometimes in a negative way. The Aussie media called us Barmy Army because we were supporting the team vocally and that was crazy, hence 'barmy' and there was a lot of us, hence 'army'."We got louder and louder the more we lost. The Aussies couldn't understand that and we became a sub-plot to that long, long tour. "It is a very British thing. The old Dunkirk, bulldog spirit, I suppose Blitz attitude during the war. That is part of our culture."Funnily, we were more accepted abroad than at home. This is a more mature crowd and the singing has almost no swear words in them. They just have a dig at the opposition."Burnham argues that the bowlers get the biggest lift from their support."Especially later in the day when they become weary and also after a few drinks people are more relaxed and they sing. We sing Jerusalem first thing in the morning but we won't win any prizes for its tunefulness," he said."But this is why the players appreciate our support. A few of us bumped into Jonny Bairstow in Dubai. He was watching the rugby and we asked him to join us. He wasn't drinking but he was doing all the buying and it is expensive in Dubai."I guess with the new generation you are less likely to be out until 2am. Which reminds me, what goes on tour stays on tour."