1. Cricket SA v SAIt is up to the cricket suits to transform cricket racially as well as keep it afloat financially . That these goals are not at odds is not an argument heard often enough. That South Africans of all races and cultures play cricket in numbers, and that the national team will be stronger if more people get more opportunities , are notions that will silence too many bars in the country. All that said, the suits do themselves no favours by behaving as if South Africans are too dim to see the obvious: there is a quota in place . A lot of corporate doubletalk and not a lot of straight talk is coming out of administrators' mouths. Tears will flow if AB adds C you to his cardThey need to try harder in 2016, starting with being more honest with the people in whose name they purport to be looking after the game.Those people should do the same in their views on the suits. If you think white people want to control cricket, say so. If you think transformation is ruining the game, say so. Without that, 2016 will be just another year of cowardice and acrimony.2. NoiseAfter the Kingsmead test against England, coach Russell Domingo said: "There are a lot of questions about our batting lineup. There's a lot of questions about AB's retirement and Dale's injury. There's a lot going on. It's important for our team to stay a really tight unit and try and keep the noise out. We know this team is capable of some special things."True. But there is noise and then there is noise. The noise made when a team wins is, of course, music to their ears. Less so what they hear when they lose. Domingo will know that, like death, taxes, and the poor - and people who think having played test cricket legitimises their opinions - noise will be with us throughout 2016 and beyond. There is only one way to change its tone: win, dammit.3. RetirementsSix members of the SA team who played in the first test against England have seen the big three-oh come and go. Four have recently become fathers. And it should be no surprise that Dale Steyn is crocked again - he is, after all, the old man of the side. As sure as the Indian Premier League is a madness of money and marmalade skies, so players will retire, either when it suits them or when fate takes one of their hamstrings out of the equation. So, when AB de Villiers or Steyn or both of them call time on their careers in the closer rather than the distant future - quite possibly sometime in 2016 - let's not pretend we didn't see it coming. De Villiers has nappies to change. Steyn has penguins to rescue. Cricket? It's only a game.story_article_right24. The Medium ThreeWhen a suit like Shashank Manohar, president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India and chair of the International Cricket Council, speaks out against bullying, we should take notice. " The ICC constitution, as it stands today, says that in all the major committees India, England and Australia will be automatically there."So all the financial and commercial aspects and the executive committee will be controlled by the representatives of these three countries, which according to me is wrong."The Big Three could find themselves unsupervised at the ICC yearly meeting in June.5. Virat Kohli's futureKohli's shimmering indignation at anyone who dared question the quality of the pitches on which his Indian team beat South Africa last year was a sight and sound to behold.We've been shot in this movie before in decades gone by when teams touring India would find themselves confronted by pitches that were about as prepared as powdered mustard. Expect more of the same in India in 2016, and to hell with what the ICC and match referees say.