In a climate of such deep introspection, it has been accompanied by a search for potential fault lines in the cricket hierarchy.With several world-class players who have moved on, the Proteas are no longer sufficiently insulated from the vicissitudes of the domestic game and indeed its administration.The question often raised is whether the right people are occupying the key positions in Cricket South Africa (CSA). Domestic game finds itself in a quagmire"There clearly are people sitting on different committees who are not fit for the positions they hold," said an insider who didn't want to be named. "They simply don't know what's going on. It's a problem."Former Northerns president and veteran administrator Vince Sinovich concurs. "I don't think we have the right people in the right positions. I do however know that Chris Nenzani is a good guy."Nenzani, CSA's president, is absent from the governing body's committees.Though more independent directors now feature on the board of CSA and its affiliates, Nenzani's election promise of sweeping change hasn't materialised fully. Several board members who helped prop up erstwhile chief executive Gerald Majola's regime remain.Andy O'Connor, an enthusiastic Majola supporter, still heads the cricket committee, but CSA's board has independent directors with gravitas in former Absa boss Louis von Zeuner and advocates Norman Arendse and Vusi Pikoli.Whether the same can be said of the national selectors divides opinion. Having played just three first-class matches, Linda Zondi's suitability as selection committee convenor was immediately questioned.He is not the only selector whose credentials have come under scrutiny."I think they should get guys that have played the game at the top. When they get those people they mustn't tell them how to pick the team," argued Sinovich.Jacques Faul, the Northerns chief executive, holds the opposite view."I don't think one should necessarily look at someone's test or first-class average to decide whether he is fit to be a selector," said Faul. "I think it is possible for someone who hasn't played international cricket to be a good selector."