Regardless of the quality of the cricket from the hosts, Kingsmead just does not seem to do it. Nor does Port Elizabeth, which hosted the West Indies two seasons ago and in 2007-08.Last week's test in Durban, free of rain and bad light, attracted 39397 spectators, with 12098 watching the first day. St George's Park had its occasion soured by the notoriously tempestuous Eastern Cape seaboard festive weather with only 13129 spectators attending, and only 7247 watching a truncated day one.Repucom executive chairman Kelvin Watt said each day needs to have a special theme and move away from hinging the test on just the opening day.Between 2010-11 and 2015-16, second-day numbers at Kingsmead were 10154, 7292, 4752 and 9268. The windy city had a paltry 1313 in the 2014-15 test and the 2012-13 summer did not have a Boxing Day test when New Zealand were in town."They make a big deal about Boxing Day but they don't make a big deal about the other day," Watt said."Centurion, for example, have occasions for different days and they push various themes. Boxing Day should be left to be what it is and finding themes for the rest of the other days. They need to look at doing specific things that will entertain different audiences."South Africa have won only four of the 10 Boxing Day home tests this century.Contrast this with South Africa's impregnable and unblemished New Year's test record at home and general excellence at Newlands since readmission. Is talented Van Zyl the right partner for Elgar?The TV audience also eats into Boxing Day test attendances but Watt blames Durban's varied sporting culture for that.According to Repucom statistics for viewers measured over the five days, the SABC and SuperSport had a combined 5.3million unique viewers."People who go to Durban are active and people who go on holiday to Durban are very active," Watt said."They don't sit and do the food thing. They cycle, they go to the beach and do other things related to the city. It's a tough town to host things at that period."I also don't think the Proteas like to be in Durban at that time of the year. For some reason, they've not been a team who want to be in Durban for Christmas for a test match. They've never got their heads around it."