If anything, my political views are so sophisticated that I choose to not have them published. I'm a modest bloke and I'd hate for regular political commentators to read my stuff and feel inadequate about their own inferior views.But now and then political events sufficiently pique my interest. This is one of those times. I hereby extend my sincere upfront apologies to Eusebius McKaiser, Aubrey Matshiqi, Steven Friedman and the rest of that bunch. I'll go back to writing about my socks next week.Once upon a time we had a president at the Union Buildings called Thabo Mbeki who loved us so much that he did something even better than sending us a son to crucify. He would actually take time out of his busy schedule - running the country, scouring the web for Sir Winston Churchill quotes, dabbling in virology - to write us weekly love letters.You need a shiny ass to rule the ZulusEvery Friday morning I'd quiver with anticipation. Around noon I would print out the weekly missive and scribble "To Ndumiso" at the beginning and "From Thabo" at the end, just to convince myself that he'd written to me personally.Then I would go and sit on the balcony of the Dros at Gateway Mall, open a leather-bound copy of William Butler Yeats poetry to bestow upon myself an air of sophistication, order a double of Scotch whisky - neat - and devour the letter while puffing on an empty pipe (my puny lungs can't handle actual tobacco smoke, see).I remember how, during the ANC conference in December 2007, I stood in rain-soaked sneakers outside the giant marquee at the University of Limpopo and told Mark Gevisser, Fred Khumalo and Jacob Dlamini how I would miss receiving my weekly letter from the president. The looks they gave me convinced me that they were searching for my lobotomy scar.So imagine my surprise when, after the dust settled, I received a few weekly letters from the new ANC president, Jacob Zuma. I was elated! Sadly, that didn't last too long. I don't remember Luthuli House making any pronouncements on why the new president wasn't writing me a letter every week. I just assumed that he was busier than the former president or that maybe his keyboard was defective.It was only natural then that an old friend of mine called me to check just how excited I was when the former president started publishing what we now know is a series of articles, taking the nation on a tour of his cerebral archives. I was convinced that I'd be excited. And then I made the mistake of reading the articles. What if Helen Zille writes her own series of corrections, entitled "They started it", detailing all her notorious twars? Yawn. It's been a bit like your dad who left the house eight years ago sending you a series of WhatsApp texts to explain that he never actually struck your mom before he left and that it was, in fact, your mom who stumbled head first onto his hand which just happened to be clenched into a fist at the time. Frankly, I don't give a damn.In Mbeki's defence, another former president, that chrome dome who photobombed Madiba's Nobel Peace Prize moment, has been pulling the same stunt for a while now using the FW de Klerk Foundation. Not too many people have seemed to care.But I think it's because that while Mbeki is the dad who went missing, De Klerk is the uncle who molested you for years and now writes you letters reminding you that when he was your uncle the dollar only cost R3.27 and you could buy Nike shoes for R750.Of course former presidents have the constitutional right to tell us whatever the hell they think is important. But they must understand that we have the constitutional right to yawn when they do. I care as much about how or why Zuma was fired or resigned in 2005 as I care about what was going on in Clive Barker's mind when he substituted Doctor Khumalo against Brazil on that fateful evening in 1996. Both explanations rank roughly minus nine on my give-a-rat's-ass-o-meter. Lawn, a shopping centre: Nothing's off limits for robbers who think bigWhat would interest me would be a blueprint from the ex-president on how to reduce unemployment to single digits and how to attain 8% annual growth.And even then I'd have to ask, "So why did you sit on this between 1999 and 2008?" See where I'm going with this? I think the contents of these articles belong in a memoir; then I'd happily devour the salacious details. But as "corrections" of history, I feel rather lukewarm about the idea.From what I've been told, I have seven more of these to read. Don't be daft; of course I'm going to read the whole series. I'm a hopeless whore when it comes to Churchill and Yeats quotes. But where will it all end?What if these letters spur a series of "corrections" from former president Kgalema Motlanthe detailing how, among other things, he actually never used Inecto dye to keep his hair jet black while his beard remained grey?What if Helen Zille writes her own series, entitled "They started it", detailing all her notorious twars? Or if the Rev Kenneth Meshoe tries to explain how Herman Mashaba's hair relaxer ruined his perm and left him with a St Augustine clearing on his crown?Will Inkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi "correct" the Guinness Book of Records over its entry that he set the world record for the longest legislative speech in March 1993, speaking for an average of two-and-half hours a day for 11 days? Will he claim the entry is part of an ANC campaign to vilify him?You see? I told you about my incisive political commentary. Just call me the Eugene Nyathi of the 21st century.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo