The first sentence is an obviously sexist, gross generalisation. However, I have been a "boy" for 44 years, I've been best friends with other "boys" for this entire time; I shared dorms with pubescent boys in various levels of unwashedness at boarding school, and I have fathered three boys. And all I can say about my boys is that they have steadfastly maintained a wait-and-see posture with regard to the need for soap and water. Lawn, a shopping centre: Nothing's off limits for robbers who think bigWhen I was in matric, a group of us stood outside the communal showers, waiting our turn. A 13-year-old went into the shower for what seemed like six seconds, including the walk into the cubicle and the long walk to freedom from water out of the shower. As he walked past us back to his dorm our nasal hairs were singed by a potent bouquet that was a cross between goat droppings and burning tyre. Almost in unison we yelled, "Get back in there, you filthy stink bomb!" One of my classmates proceeded to supervise the lil' skunk's shower, peppering his tutorial with, "And let that foam linger between your butt cheeks a little longer!"Nearly 30 years later, I found myself repeating the same words to my eight-year-old as he stood in a bathtub filled with Savlon-soaked water. This was after I picked him and his brothers up from school. As soon as they entered the car, my nostrils were invaded by what I can best describe as raw egg essence. And try to get them to brush their teeth; you'd swear you were asking them to undergo a root canal.Tragically, that's only the half of it. After the reluctant cleansing, you have to stand over them to get them to moisturise. Mrs N insists that this is the private school influence, an observation bolstered by the reluctance to apply lotion whenever their mates come to our house for sleep-over parties. Throughout these weekends they all walk around scalier than a Nile crocodile. Naturally, with their skin tone, my midgets end up the colour of ash.Some months ago I posted a Facebook update exalting the practice of applying lotion to one's gluteus maximus to avoid what I call the Ashy Butt Syndrome. Author Sarah Britten commented that she hadn't been aware that one's rear end could take on ashy connotations. I assured her that the angst you see on black folks' faces as they are wheeled into hospital wards unexpectedly is due to the realisation that they forgot to apply Vaseline to their rear ends that morning, and now the sadistic nurses are about to slap those back-to-front hospital gowns on them. Nurses have this annoying habit of referring to patients not by their names but by their ailments. And no one wants to be referred to as, "The kidney-stone case with an ashy butt in ward 3B."This is why I want to petition the Honourable Minister Angie Motshekga to bring back a subject called ezempilo (hygiene studies) from my Bantu Education primary schooling. I think we threw out the baby with the bath water on that one (pun intended). This subject was designed to teach us the importance of maintaining exemplary hygiene. The practical assessment involved being lined up and having teachers examine your hair for lice, your ears for wax build-up, your teeth for plaque and your armpits for evidence of at least a hint of Sadie roll-on deodorant. I remember one Mr Mafoko from Wozanazo Higher Primary in Hammarsdale walking between two lines of boys, his arms spread out like a cockerel in heat, making us smell the awesome freshness of his armpits, to illustrate the point.Even the king to end all kings, UShaka kaSenzangakhona, held his own daily practical ezempilo classes to instil a grooming regime among his subjects. Every morning he used to have elaborate and very public baths in the royal kraal. (In his 1955 biography, Shaka Zulu, one EA Ritter intimated that the real motive behind the king's public baths was to showcase his impressive manhood after he was taunted about his puniness as a boy, but that is neither here nor there). Explaining awkward situations to strangers is, well, awkwardAfter lathering himself with fat and millet (the 19th-century equivalent of Dove), his page boys would then scrub his heels with ichopho (a heel-scrubbing stone) to avoid the onset of iminkenke (cracked heels). Shaka was known to regularly participate in gentle 95km strolls through his kingdom from time to time, so that ichopho must have experienced some hectic wear-and-tear. To this day, folks who consider themselves Zulu have never steered too far from this daily grooming regime.Little boys who smell like a hyena's balls grow up to be adults who believe that a strong, expensive cologne is a substitute for a shower. Don't give me that look; you too have been trapped in a lift with such individuals.Last week Mrs N and I went to a spa for some pampering and the ladies were so impressed with the state of our heels that they showed us a picture of the heels of a Tyrannosaurus rex that they insisted had been attached to a human client of theirs, so we could commiserate about the difficulties of their job.During Shaka's tenure, such abominations would never have occurred. In fact, the high point of his public ezempilo classes was the application of red ochre paste (19th-century version of Nivea body lotion) all over his body. Shaka was a master of the psychology of war and I think he appreciated that the fear of God could not be struck into the hearts of enemies if the commander-in-chief appeared on the horizon with an ashy butt.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo