1. Maximise water resources One of the most efficient ways of maximising your water usage is by recycling water that would ordinarily be flushed into your sewerage system. Known as greywater harvesting , this involves rerouting water from your sink, bath and shower to water your garden. Another method of water collection is through rainwater harvesting various systems, such as water tanks, will collect rainwater for reuse in your garden. By watering between 6pm and 6am, you ll prevent too much water loss to evaporation. Invest in a flexible irrigation system with rain sensors that will turn the system off if it has rained.2. Water only when necessaryA good idea is to create a watering schedule so you know when and how much to water the different zones in your garden. While the general rule of thumb is approximately 2,5cm of water a week, it is important to consider your soil type (clay soil will hold more water than sandy soil), your climate, and the type of plants you have. Watering deeply and as infrequently as possible should encourage deep rooting of plants.If you are planting a garden from scratch, zone high, medium and low-water plants together, so you won t have to water your entire garden to keep it in bloom.10 clever ways to save water in your summer garden3. Plant drought-tolerant plantsCreate a sustainable garden by researching the types of plants that do best in your region, and plant them in their groupings according to their specific water requirements (see point 2).Most of South Africa experiences warm, temperate conditions, so it is advisable to plant hardy, low-water plants that will be able to grow and maintain themselves, bearing in mind that there will be an initial establishment period. Indigenous plants including bush violet, honey flower and acacia require less watering and overall maintenance. Certain plants such as aloes and clivias have strong, fleshy root systems, allowing them to reach deep into the soil, and many surface roots, which extend far away from the plant. Annuals such as African daisy, marigold, verbena and kochia can thrive with minimum water.4. Improve soil qualityHealthy soil is the foundation of a healthy garden. When determining soil composition and health, assess whether it is sandy or clay-based, too acidic or too alkaline. Clay soils prevent maximum water absorption, while sandy soils allow rainwater to drain off too quickly. The ideal soil will absorb water and release it when plants need it. When it comes to pH levels, the best way to assess the composition of your soil is to have it tested plants prefer slightly acidic to neutral soil (from 6,0 to 7,0).Compost adds valuable organic matter and beneficial micro-organisms to the soil, thereby increasing its overall efficacy. How to conquer five common summer gardening challenges5. Reconsider huge expanses of lawnLess grass means less watering, so reconsider the overall composition of your garden. Lawn alternatives include stone, gravel and pebble paths, which provide inexpensive and low-maintenance solutions to traditional lawn gardens. You can also replace lawn with larger, ornamental plants that will enhance the overall ecosystem of the area.6. Cover your flower beds with a layer of mulchNot only is mulch one of the best ways to prevent excessive water evaporation, it is also an effective method of weed control. Organic mulch also decomposes over time and enhances the overall soil quality.7. Invest in a drip irrigation systemDrip irrigation systems supply water directly to roots and minimise water wastage. Watering gardens with a hose is an ineffective way to irrigate, as it encourages shallow root growth that dries out quickly. Rather install soaker hoses or a drip irrigation system that will give plants a deep soaking.