I am going to Mumbai and would like to explore the world of Bollywood movies. Are there tours of the studios available, as there are in Hollywood? - Nisha BanikThere are several tours that will introduce you to the world of Bollywood movie production, an industry that has produced over 67,000 films in some 30 languages, and still produces about 1,000 a year, far more than Hollywood.Cruising the sacred waters of the Ganges A number of companies on the internet offer tours, so you can select one that suits you in terms of price and length.Some include the Bollywood bit as part of a wider Mumbai tour, and some add evening entertainment.Bollywood Tours offers a full-day tour of seven to eight hours starting at various times in the morning.The price is $140 -$175 (about R2,000 - R2,400), and you get to visit two different studios to watch filming and possibly meet a star, see the Bollywood Museum and see a short dance-hall show.You also get to actually participate as well, such as singing in a proper studio, or dubbing your voice over a scene from a Bollywood movie.GeTS Bombay offers either a six- or nine-hour tour for from R2,000 per person.You will visit the SJ Studio in Andheri, famous for its Bollywood productions, to learn about the industry since the 1930s when sound was first introduced, and the influence of dance, music and song in Bollywood Hindu storytelling.The nine-hour tour goes on to the neighbourhoods of Juhu and Bandra, home to numerous Bollywood stars, and then a Bollywood film screening at the art-deco Regal Theatre on the Colaba Causeway, and a traditional Indian dinner.The tours start at 2pm from your hotel and use air-conditioned vehicles and an English-speaking guide.Another company offering tours is Mumbai Film City Tours.</img>Several companies offer film-studio tours in Mumbai. Image: sjstudiobollywoodtour.comSeveral companies offer film-studio tours in Mumbai. Image: sjstudiobollywoodtour.comWe will be travelling to Australia for three months. What are the visa requirements? We are both over 75. I know we will need a medical check from their recommended doctors. Do we apply for this online with the visas? Or should we go to an agent? - Rose JosephYou will need a visitor visa (subclass 600), which lets you visit Australia for up to three, six or 12 months. It costs between AUD135 (R1,400) and AUD340 (R3,500). Find details about visas here.For clarity, contact the High Commission of Australia on 012-423-6000.You need to have been vaccinated against hepatitis A, tetanus, typhoid and polio, according to our International Relations website.The My Health Declaration (MHD) is a service for travellers who have not yet lodged a visa application and would like to do health examinations before they do so. You can get it before the visa but don't have to.It can delay the process in some cases. Once you have applied for the visa you would have to wait to see if they request one. Find more information on the health requirements here.Whether to use an agent is your decision: it will cost cash but could save you trouble. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za