Karius was removed from the firing line by Klopp after a series of poor performances undermined the team's defensive stability and led to fierce criticism from pundits, including former Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher and Sky Sports colleague Gary Neville.Klopp launched a stinging counterattack in his press conference ahead of Wednesday's Premier League match at Middlesbrough, questioning Neville's ability to judge players given he has only recently lost his job as Valencia manager and been forced to stand down as England's assistant manager.The manager, however, could not continue to ignore the reasons why Karius, 23, had become a target and moved swiftly to spare him, and the team, any further damage. HEADLINE ACTS: Today - Man City vs Arsenal. Tomorrow - Everton vs LiverpoolLiverpool stole past Arsenal into second place courtesy of a 3-0 win at Boro and now face the London club's conquerors, Everton, in tomorrow night's Merseyside derby.Midfielder Adam Lallana, who scored twice at the Riverside Stadium, said Liverpool's display was "not too far off the complete performance", but revealed the German boss Klopp was not fully satisfied."The manager has already quickly said to us that there are things we can improve on," Lallana said. "At times we can maybe get a little bit carried away and all of us maybe want to attack at times when we need to protect a bit more."Klopp admitted that Karius did not take his demotion well and there was a potentially awkward situation when all of the club's goalkeepers met for a pre-Christmas lunch.But Mignolet insisted he was in no mood to apologise to his colleague and said that goalkeepers knew the pressure they were under if they made mistakes. He also pointed out that he had to swallow his pride three months ago when he was told by Klopp he was losing his place to a keeper five years younger.System change favours SpursTottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino hailed his change of system after his side beat Hull City 3-0 to remain unbeaten on home soil."This season we were working hard on a different formation to provide the team with a different solution," said Pochettino, whose side continue to trail Chelsea by 10 points in fifth place and face Burnley today."It was important to try and move the ball quick. It's important to be clinical. The three points keep us in a very good position. We need to keep our faith and reduce the gap."It's important to take a good result. We need to work hard to try and keep that feeling."We are getting closer and closer. Those chances are coming. Times when they don't go in, they get a bit down and disappointed, but we have to look ahead and keep our belief in what we are doing."