Ernesto Michahelles, an Italian painter of the Futurist movement, invented the jumpsuit, as we know it today. Back then it was known as the "Tuta" (in Italian), because of its "T" shape and was worn by parachutists and skydivers - hence the name jumpsuit. It reinvented the idea of casual wear, was economic and practical.Coco Chanel, the creator of many timeless trends, took the jumpsuit to the next level during this era with the creation of "lounging pyjamas", which women wore during the warmer seasons while holidaying on the French Riviera. This style epitomised resort wear.Jumpsuits are a fashion must-have. Here are 7 fabulous ways to wear oneBy now the style had become widespread in women's fashion. Italian designer Elsa Schiaparelli, often cited as Coco Chanel's rival, shook up the Paris couture scene with her silk jumpsuits that gave the style a more feminine and elegant edge.World-renowned fashion designer Emilio Pucci made an important contribution to the history of the jumpsuit. In 1935, while studying at Reed College in Oregon, US, he designed a jumpsuit for the college skiing team.Pucci served as a pilot during World War II after joining the Italian Air Force in 1938, and his fashion career kicked off after his jumpsuit was noticed by Harper s Bazaar photographer Toni Frizell.The magazine would go on to feature several of his jumpsuit designs in the following decade, the popularity of which led him to open his first boutique in Capri.Sportswear designer Vera Maxwell designed the jumpsuit that would go on to be worn by millions of women known as Rosies (Rosie the Riveter, the name given to American women who worked in factories when men were drafted into the frontlines of World War 2).The image of Rosie in her jumpsuit with a polka-dot headband became the symbol of empowerment for women. In the same year Katharine Hepburn wore a silk jumpsuit in the film Stage Door.The jumpsuit was revived with the update of wide pants known as palazzos and flares.The jumpsuit peaked in the disco era. Pop stars like Cher and Abba adopted it as their style, while Diana Ross, Liza Minelli and Farrah Fawcett also had jumpsuit moments. French designer Andr Courr ges gave the trend a futuristic spin.</img> American soul singer Diana Ross wearing a striped all in one outfit during a night out at the Embassy Nightclub in Mayfair, London, 1983. Image: Dave Hogan/Getty ImagesAmerican soul singer Diana Ross wearing a striped all in one outfit during a night out at the Embassy Nightclub in Mayfair, London, 1983. Image: Dave Hogan/Getty ImagesWith everything going big in the '80s it was no surprise that the jumpsuit would also do the same. During these years the jumpsuit got supersized with shoulder pads, tapered trousers and bat-wing sleeves. The jumpsuit lay a little dormant in the '90s but came back stronger in the noughties, finding its way back into popular culture worn by the likes of Madonna, Britney Spears, Missy Elliot and others.