In 2005 when South Africa experienced low rainfall many home owners took a keen interest in water-wise plants.That proved to be a turning points for Goliath who has farming in her blood who started a tiny backyard nursery in Stellenbosch specialising in fynbos.It was a modest beginning but today her 100% black-owned company De Fynne Nursery operates on a 22-hectare farm in Paarl which and is flourishing thanks to the drought.SA s economic growth slows as impact of drought and uncertainty relating to trade policy direction in US continues"Besides fynbos people are growing their own fruit and vegetables in pots she told TMG Digital. "They would rather plant in containers because it is easier to water and care for. And they are also becoming more conscious about lowering their carbon footprint by planting plants such as Spekboom '' said Goliath 43 who is equally passionate about the environment.In 2001 while working for an NGO Goliath and her friend Elton Jefthas decided to start a nursery in his backyard to generate extra income.They planted three types of fynbos - 1000 plants in total. She has a degree in horticulture and he has one in horticulture and agriculture. Both had also worked for the Agricultural Research Council so they had the necessary expertise to start a nursery but said Goliath "We didn't know what we were letting ourselves in for".Up until 2008 just about everything came out of their personal savings. "One month he would pay the employees' salaries and I would buy the pots '' she said.They ploughed everything back into the business and over the years they managed to move to bigger premises as the demand for their plants increased.Today they supply major retailers such as Woolworths Massmart Stodels and some of the biggest estates in the country. The company also exports plums supply agricultural crops and work with research organisations on new plant material.They have 35 permanent staff and additional employees are hired during harvesting time. Despite this they are still a modest operation and have a long way to go."This is my passion. I come from dirt roads and outside toilets. Farming is not new to me. My father grew vegetables in our garden so this is in my blood. I enjoy working outdoors and with people " said Goliath. Last year Goliath won the Toyota New Harvest of the Year award.One of the judges explained the decision as follows: "Farming is challenging and running a farm is not an easy task. Farmers have to plan and prepare for every eventuality including changing weather conditions environmental factors and demand fluctuations; and when it happens have to implement plans very quickly.We salute [farmers] like Goliath who rise up above the challenges and succeed due to sheer perseverance and unrelenting spirit." She was also profiled by the BBC this month.Being a black woman in the agricultural industry can be daunting. She is small in stature and often the only woman among the guys but she insists on making her mark."Sometimes you just have to stand your ground." - TMG Digital/The Times