From the referee who relieved a ball boy of his duties to the Orlando Pirates goalkeepers who are seemingly in a who has the best butterfingers contest, South African soccer served up the bizarre and the shocking in 2016.The year dished up football fare with mouthwatering and jaw-dropping highlights. Hlompho Kekana's super strike for Bafana Bafana against Cameroon was the stuff memories are made of.The Mamelodi Sundowns skipper dispossessed Tony Tchani deep in the Bafana half before belting a scintillating stunner. On its way to nestling in an empty net, it made a moegoe of the goalkeeper who had strayed way off his line. Coaches from around the world clamouring for sacked Mashaba s old Bafana jobLeaving even the opposition salivating at its sheer aesthetic, the goal was such a gem it rightfully got the nod in the top 10 of the 2016 Fifa Puskas goal of the year. Staying on the subject of wonder goals, the one scored by Oscarine Masuleke was sweeter than a nectarine.Because it was scored by a goalkeeper. In spectacular scissors-kick style. In the referee's optional time. The Baroka goalkeeper profited from a poor punch of the ball by his Orlando Pirates opposite number Jackson Mabokgwane.With his back to the goal, the beanpole goalminder let fly a sensational scissor-kick. It went over Issa Sarr, Mabokgwane and Oupa Manyisa to help Baroka grab a draw. The Sea Robbers were all at sea, probably swearing worse than sailors.Both Kekana and Masuleke's goals went viral, hogging international headlines as the world media lapped them up.In the year of their 80th anniversary, the shameless Pirates players provided the palooka moment of the year. Brighton Mhlongo must have endured abdominal pain when he picked the ball from his own net SIX times. Game. Set. Match. SuperSport United won 6-1.Soaking wet from the pouring rain, Muhsin Ertugral announced his resignation in a live TV post-match interview. Insomnia-struck Ertugral pressed the send button to make his jumping the ship official to boss Irvin Khoza's email at 3.38am!Seeing they love tennis scores, Boris Becker could fancy his chances for the vacant Bucs coaching position now that he's severed ties with Novak Djokovic. Elsewhere, goals in the fourth (Messi), 28th (Messi), 50th (Neymar), 59th (Iniesta), 61st (Messi), 76th (Suarez) and 89th (Suarez) saw Barcelona hand Celtic their heaviest ever Uefa Champions League defeat.</img>Adam Lallana and teammates celebrate with manager Jurgen Klopp in a come from behind 5-4 victory away to Norwich City. Image: Supplied Adam Lallana and teammates celebrate with manager Jurgen Klopp in a come from behind 5-4 victory away to Norwich City. Image: Supplied The comeback kings from Anfield trailed 3-1 away to Norwich City. 3-2. 3-3. 4-3 Norwich. 4-4. So manic was the celebration when Lallana scored the winner, manager Jurgen Klopp broke his glasses during the craze.Patrice Motsepe's bottomless pockets have not only upset the applecart, his investment has finally paid off. Pitso Mosimane led Motsepe's men from Mamelodi to the promised land of Caf Champions League winners. And of course, referee Victor "Red Rage" Gomez sent off a ball boy for throwing the ball onto the field while another was in play. Like one Slur Alex once said: "Football, bloody hell!"bbk@sundaytimes.co.za