The restaurant has had a "soft" launch with guests dining there through December but it is officially taking bookings from today.The EatOut guide prices the food on offer at between R90 to R120 for an average main meal and lists its ambiance as "comfy and casual contemporary cool".Local food lovers who've eaten there are positive so far.Brian Lara Rum Eatery brings Caribbean flavours to Joburg Dan Parker rated Jamie's Italian South Africa as 5-star posting on Facebook: "Absolutely divine dining experience. We started off with a meat plank which our waiter Bradley explained with an in depth knowledge of the selection as well as their origins and taste profiles."We complemented this with Italian Nachos were to die for. For mains we had the prawn linguine and the Bolognese. The linguine was bursting with flavour while the bolognese was spiced to perfection and left me wanting more this was my personal favourite on the night."Now for dessert and from someone who doesn't have a sweet tooth the chocolate brownie must be the reason people get addicted to sweet treats... I may have had a foodgasm at first bite of this. In general the portion sizes are perfect generous without being gluttonous."The restaurant welcome staff knowledge and Jamie's Italian team were all exceptional. This restaurant is beautiful and reflective of a standard not yet experienced by South Africans especially at this price point." Nicholas Scott reviewed the restaurant too: "What a great experience... Service was great Lindiwe was very professional with great knowledge of the menu. Food was just as we've seen it in books and shows." Marcel Malherbe posted:"What a great evening at the soft opening of this establishment. Coming in with a great reputation this restaurant delivered. It was an experience thanks to the wonderful attentive managers and staff. Judging its Italian authenticity by its pastas and pannacottas it was phenomenal - fresh tasty and great for sharing."Spot on with the pricing .. I highly recommend this establishment for a great dining experience that is Italian personified with its hospitality. Melrose Arch has finally got some character." Another rave review came from Lauren van den Bergh who said: "Such a phenomenal evening x The food wine friendly staff attentive managers company and atmosphere... felt like a little part of Italy again. Such a welcoming feel to the place. P.S. The crispy squid epic brownies half portions pastas (for sharing and trying more variety) as well as the sexy wobble panacotta were heaven in a bowl. Well done Chef Shane!" Kevin Barrie Levy's review stated: "Passion oozes from every single person working at this phenomenal restaurant - service is impeccable! Food is super delicious fresh and fabulous! Restaurant is modern spacious and sophisticated with a truly relaxed and family-friendly touch."Chef Shane Smit's brother even piled in with an encouragement to diners. Dale Smit came clean about his family connection posting: "As Shane's brother I can assure you that this WILL be the best restaurant you will ever visit. The amount of effort love and passion that he's putting into this is astounding. I can tell you so many wonderful stories and moments we've shared involving food but words can't describe it. Just GO! See for yourself and thank me later."</img>Shane Smit and Jamie Oliver. Image: via TwitterShane Smit and Jamie Oliver. Image: via TwitterShane Smit spent a year working at the first Jamie s Italian restaurant in Oxford which opened in 2008 learning about Italian cooking from Jamie and his team.It was the time he spent overseas that made him realise that the South African food industry is "up there with best"."The South African palate loves big flavours yet still appreciates the food being fresh healthy and ethically farmed " he told TshisaLive in an interview earlier this year. "I believe that South African chefs are truly talented and passionate about the industry and together with amazing produce and gorgeous settings South Africa can really be proud of what the food industry produces."Smit - who hails from Springs Gauteng - gave up the chance to become a lawyer to pursue his passion for food. Unlike many he said his family was receptive to the idea of him trading law school for the kitchen.He said he hopes the SA restaurant will live up to Jamie Oliver's developmental ethos."I want to ... create an environment where the chefs come to work inspired with a sense of belonging. I believe that leading a team with passion and inspiration; you will get so much more out of the individuals collectively rather than being a dictator and ruling with fear " Smit said.