It's one of many colourful New Year's rituals in Latin America, where some spend the evening walking around with a suitcase, others put potatoes under the bed and still others throw buckets of water out the window."The yellow underwear is for love, luck, money and so that this year will go well for everyone," said Gladys Leal, a saleswoman at a lingerie stand in Santiago. This time of year, she specialises in yellow undergarments in all shapes and sizes, for women and men alike.But there's a catch, said her colleague, Jesica Silva: "The underwear has to be given as a gift to bring luck." Yellow, she said, "represents the golden rays of abundance and prosperity".Some even say the undies should be worn inside-out to guarantee a year full of passion."The tradition is more tied to the colour itself," said Chilean writer H ctor Velis-Meza, author of The Secret History of Christmas and New Year's.Yellow is seen in Latin America as a symbol of the sun, an eternal light.The tradition also exists in Mexico, Peru and Ecuador, with slight variations. Some say you should wear red undies for love, yellow for money. In Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil, pink is the colour. And in Venezuela, revellers are supposed to wear only new clothes - a tall order as the country struggles through an economic crisis.For some, it is vital to welcome the New Year by eating lentils. For others, it's 12 grapes - one at each strike of the clock at midnight, a Spanish tradition.In many countries, revellers ring in the new year by walking around the neighbourhood with a suitcase, a ritual meant to guarantee a year of journeys.In Uruguay, people often throw buckets of water out the window to wipe the slate clean for the new year. Some throw out their old calendars, too.In Brazil, many dress in white and make offerings to Yemanja, the goddess of the sea in the Afro-Brazilian religion of Candomble. Thousands swarm the beaches of Rio de Janeiro each year to launch makeshift boats with flowers and other gifts for Yemanja, seeking love, happiness or money.Colombians put potatoes under their beds to bring good luck. And in Peru and Ecuador, revellers burn effigies of politicians and others they loved to hate in the outgoing year, a custom rooted in ancient indigenous practices.But for the most part, the region's rituals had their origins in European traditions imported by Spanish and Portuguese conquistadors, said Velis-Meza. That is the case for the grapes and the lentils. In Europe, the custom was to eat lentils, a hearty dish, in preparation for winter.