We had been a nice, white, middle-class family - until about half-way through last year.Then we'd sold our car, moved into the inner-city and begun to use bicycles for transport. One of the perks of this lifestyle change, for our five children, was that we would holiday more often. And when we went on holiday, we would hire a car. A cheap car.The next day, Sam rode to the airport and came home with an expensive Fortuner. I'd married Sam as a mechanic. He was very good at fixing cars. And we were very good at buying cars that he needed to fix. Accidental Tourist: Why NOW is the time to go to Paris Our VW Beetle blew its head gasket in the Berg, our camper van burnt out its alternator at the beach, our 300d Mercedes cracked its water pump mid-Karoo. Even our XT600 motorbike seized near the Valley of a 1000 Hills. And it wasn't even on a hill.So the consolation, in pouring all this money down the drain of a hire car, was that at least the drive would be quick - more time to enjoy all the pleasures of the Drakensberg - and at least the drive would be safe.Sam is a very safe driver. In an Avanza. But this was double the car."There's no key. You just press this button to start," he said, looking admiringly at where the keyhole should have been as he veered onto the N3."You can sync your phone with the dashboard touch-screen to receive calls," he said, pushing some virtual buttons as he swerved in front of some not-so-virtual cars."You can adjust your seat. Backwards, forwards; even down and up," he said as his head compressed slowly against the roof."Wow," our 4-year-old son whooped, "Do that again Dad.""You can adjust the sound on the steering wheel," Sam said, examining the buttons that had been carefully designed so that the driver need not examine them.And, for the next few hours, so Sam continued: "How's the air-con back there? Are you comfortable? This ladder suspension is useless. I'm rattling like I'm in an old Fortuner. Speaking of old Fortuners, look at those pieces of junk." We arrived at Cobham Nature Reserve. There was a brief mention, en route, of sleeping in the car, instead of our cabin, possibly to recoup losses... Our oil buzzer didn't buzz, our water light didn't flash, but Sam drove like he was in love. Or, as our daughter said, "Dad's driving like those ladies he always complains about."And then at last, the Underberg Spar car park came into view.Sam likes to park. He likes to take his time over parking, too. Even in an Avanza. But we were in double the car. We had 43 hours till the Fortuner had to be returned; Sam spent an hour of those admiring its ability to park."It has a camera at the back that projects onto the touch screen, so I don't even have to turn my head."He experimented a number of times, in a number of venues, with parking without turning his head.A few hours later, we arrived at Cobham Nature Reserve. There was a brief mention, en route, of sleeping in the car, instead of our cabin, possibly to recoup losses, but no one followed up on it. Accidental Tourist: The night it rained lions & leopards We were grateful to finally be out of the car and in the fresh air; to be off the windy roads and stretching our legs. It had been a long and slightly hazardous day but at least now we could spend the rest of the trip enjoying the delights of nature.As the darkness settled, we planned the next day."I just can't wait to swim in the river," one of the children said."And build a dam with rocks," another added."We could skip stones across the dam.""We could grind up rocks to make paint powder.""We could.""No, no, no, you'll get bored with all that," Sam interrupted his eager children. "What we all need tomorrow," he said, patting his smart key, "is a nice long drive." Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za