Cape Town-based Omnico and Coolheat Cycle Agencies in Edenvale, Gauteng, now have to cough up penalties of more than R1-million each after their appeal was dismissed on Monday. Omnico criticised the latest ruling as an error of judgment. The pair had tried to convince the Competition Appeal Court that they had been silent participants in a series of meetings in 2008 at which wholesalers and retailers had colluded to hike retail mark-ups on bicycles from 35% to 50%, and on cycling accessories from 50% to 75%, from October that year. They had also agreed to end discounting and undercutting each other. At the time, tough economic conditions and a 15% import duty gnawed at retail margins. Last year, 17 of the 20 accused companies settled with the Competition Commission but Omnico and Coolheat rejected the option and headed to court instead. A third company, Fritz Pienaar Cycles, was in liquidation by then.Omnico CEO Alan Hodson chose not to respond personally this week. The company issued a statement saying it was disappointed at the ruling, which upheld the tribunal ruling that Omnico's presence at the meeting on September 10 2008 amounted to an agreement contravening the Competition Act. "[Omnico] believes that the tribunal and Competition Appeal Court, in this particular instance, erred in their judgment." It accused the authorities of ignoring several factors, including that it was retailers and not wholesalers who had organised the meeting to discuss increasing margins. Omnico said it had proven conclusively that it was a silent participant. When it did increase its recommended retail price, it was not as part of the collusion agreement. It also said that the increase had not affected its wholesale price to retailers, "and accordingly did not result in any enrichment of Omnico". Omnico also claimed that other accused parties and the Competition Commission's witness in the tribunal proceedings denied that an agreement was actually reached in 2008 between those found guilty. But in Monday's judgment, appeal court judge Dennis Davis said: "The tribunal correctly found that Omnico and Coolheat engaged in conduct directly and indirectly in contravention of the act." Davis said both companies failed to distance themselves from the consensus reached at the meeting and gave no indication in any forum that they disagreed with the increase and would not proceed on that basis. "Both appellants have placed no evidence before the tribunal that their pricing, and increased recommended retail pricing in particular ... was a result of their independent decision-making, rather than as a result of the unlawful agreement reached at the September meeting." Davis, with backing from fellow-judge Nolwazi Boqwana, added that "silent participation can be as culpable as active participation, depending on the context". For Omnico's co-operation with the authorities, Davis cut the fine from nearly R4-million to R1.9-million. The fine was based on 10% of Omnico's affected turnover in 2009. It will also pay the costs of the litigation.Coolheat was not granted a discount because it failed to co-operate. Its fine is about R4.25-million. Coolheat CEO Steven Meltzer said the ruling was "disappointing" and "unfair".