"He belonged not between two worlds, but to both." - Nadine Gordimer on Nat Nakasa"But then again, who are my people?" - Nat Nakasa"We were acutely aware of our non-belonging." - Taiye SelasiJust like money, the story of belonging is one of obsession. Those who don't have it spend their lives obsessing about it. So do those who have it.For some time I've been wondering about the idea of "home" and why it matters. What is home? Where is home? Why is that particular place home? Why are journeys away from home so closely connected to home? Inevitably, home conjures up several things all at once. Journey ... journey to and from home, one of them. Christmas a time for eating, partying - and trainingMy late friend and fellow bar hopper John Matshikiza once told me: "I smell the beautiful notes of township jazz, I hear the mad rhythm of dancing feet, I still see the sensual swaying of hips whenever I think of the word 'home'."South Africa, like many countries, is defined by contra-duality: fixation and fluidity. Tradition and migration. Roots and routes.This is never more present than in December. I was reminded of this a week ago, during an easy-to-take-for-granted ritual - a walk through the streets of my middle-class Killarney neighbourhood.Clasped between the bosom of Houghton on the east, the tummy of Forest Town on the west - where President Jacob Zuma has a home away from home - and Yeoville in the rear, my block of town is not called The Wilds for nothing.In this bohemian-esque former Jewish enclave - now home to upper-crust Muslim communities from Durban, Lahore, Jalalabad, Somalia, Cape Flats and St Elsewhere - on any given Sunday Porsches and BMW sedans cruise up and down carrying burka-clad matriarchs and their clans.Every festive season in Killarney, mini-trucks, station wagons and kombis owned by seasonal entrepreneurs or community leaders back home pour into the streets and park in front of swanky apartment blocks. Fit young men with rippling muscles jump off to load tons of stuff. A vintage reading lamp, once the proud possession of a Mrs Rubenstein.An old heater once owned by a Mrs Rutherford. How about that crimson-hued refrigerator long in the possession of Mr Saloojee down on 2nd Avenue? They are all loaded with pride. Gifts for a year of toil and loyalty. Diaspora plays Santa to Zim's hapless peopleHuge tartan plastic travel bags, known as "ZimBags" or "Bulawayos", are piled atop each other and fastened with ropes. Old clothes are squashed in used bags alongside shiny new purchases from the CBD, Oriental Plaza and Jozi's heaving malls.Elsewhere, others twice removed by social and economic status - amaBujwa, as the black middle class is called - are headed home.Home is a place with romantic and sentimental associations peculiar to the black African demographic. To some, it conjures up memories and dreams of reconnecting with loved ones, undulating mountains, unspoilt rivers, the sound of bellowing cattle and children skipping and hopping.To others, home is a repository of grief. Just as the musical art form the blues is made wondrous and affecting because of its innate pain and joy, dreams and loss, yearning and celebration, so does the idea of home affect large numbers of the South African black population.It has become both a social and cultural descriptor, too: a source of history, tales and narratives in which the nostalgic past throbs along with the demands of the exacting and impatient present.For me, the very idea of home is as confusing as it is exhilarating. I am as African, chicory-brown and proud of the idea of a familial and cultural notion of home as anyone. I, too, well up with tears when a friend from the heady black-and-proud 1980s recalls the beatific potency of poets who recited verses with titles such as We Children who are Darker than Blue. I melt in the trance of unmitigated blackness, not as reverse racism but anchoring solace, a home, in other words, for souls deeply scarred.For me, home is not some physical destination. It is not some structure peopled by my past. It is neither glorious nor embarrassing.Like all kinds of home, it makes its demands and reciprocates with its unique pleasures and longings, every time I step in and out of it.Home, for me, is located inside the lilting notes of music. Mostly country blues or the raw kin-rolling riffs of an erotically sung maskandi song. Sometimes it is embedded in the grumpy, dry-cough vocals of a Bob Dylan song, a Led Zeppelin lyric, or snugly located in the plaintive, nay sacred, cry of Robert Plant's voice, swirling, wistfully, up the staircase to heaven.To many, home is a distillation of inherited myths and memories. The historian Simon Schama reminds us in Landscape and Memory: "Inherited landscape myths and memories share two common characteristics: their surprising endurance through centuries and their power to shape institutions that we still live with."He argues that "national identity would lose much of its ferocious enchantment without the mystique of a particular landscape tradition, its topography mapped, elaborated, and enriched as a homeland".Thus, fictionally or embraced through the filter of magical realism, home is subjective as an ideal, while retaining its magnetic pull on national discourse.La douce France - "sweet France" - is a classically well-ordered place where rivers, cultivated fields, orchards, and woods are all in harmony with each other.In my experiences as a biographer, citizen, son, sibling and parent I am forever confronted with stark demands of delineating some kind of a home, for myself, literary subjects and personal beloveds.Christmas in Clifton at just R150k a dayPart of the biographer's challenge is to fix an identity on people. I wrote of the fluidity of home in I'm Not Your Weekend Special: The Life, Style+Politics of Brenda Fassie, an account but not full biography of the life and times of the seer-rebel queen of South African pop : "Home is a dream worth pursuing."The story of South Africa is of a country perpetually eluding and escaping our grasp and fixation. A country forever on the move. What remains as a constant is the realisation that the story of modern-day South Africa is also the story of the perennial search in our hearts for a place called home.What is odd is the refusal by black South Africans to take pride in and ownership of the cities.We live, work, pay our taxes, take our children to school, fall in and out of love, dream, play and imagine ourselves anew in the city and yet refuse the city our love and care.We treat cities as second lovers, or in 1970s migratory parlance, .ukhwapeni wase dolopeni - a lover who takes care of most of our needs but will never be The One.The city is good for everything but not for our exhausted bones, something I can relate to. You need space and fresh air to truly rest after a demanding year.I suspect that's not the reason we refuse to take ownership of cities. The answer might be found in some sweeping notions of culture.To some, home is where their inkabi-umbilical cord is buried and their constant reconnection with the rural environs suggests a spiritual reconnection with the self.There can never be a prescription for these things. They are also a mirror of our country's story.