1) The Victoria's Secret Fashion Show was held in Paris for first timeIt took place at the Grand Palais exhibition center and museum in the French Capital.2) Six themed collections were showcased on the runwayStrip off those iconic wings and all the theatrical accessories and at the heart of those outrageous catwalk looks are bras and panties you can actually buy and wear.This year's fashion show was divided into various parts, each featuring lingerie styled to fit into one of six different themes: The Road Ahead: these looks were inspired by a journey through an exotic land - think bold colours and rich beaded and embroidered embellishments.</img>Model Kendall Jenner walks the runway during The Road Ahead section of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Model Kendall Jenner walks the runway during The Road Ahead section of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Mountain Romance: the designers channeled Heidi for this feminine alps-inspired collection which featured soft velvets and embroidered wildflowers.</img>Model Romee Strijd on the runway during the Mountain Romance part of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Model Romee Strijd on the runway during the Mountain Romance part of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Pink Nation: playful, sporty looks for the girl-next-door in shades of pink.</img>Zuri Tibby walks the runway during the Pink Nation portion of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for Victoria's Secret Zuri Tibby walks the runway during the Pink Nation portion of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for Victoria's Secret Secret Angel: the Angels went undercover in lacy, spy-inspired underwear in a shadowy colour palette. Some looks were teamed with trench coats and thigh-high boots and, in one case, wings that floated on the air like smoke.A video posted by Victoria's Secret (@victoriassecret) on Dec 5, 2016 at 7:34pm PST Dark Angel: Lace and leather creations in inky hues helped the Angels show of their sultry side.</img>Model Taylor Hill on the runway during the Dark Angels segment of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Model Taylor Hill on the runway during the Dark Angels segment of the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at the Grand Palais in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Bright Night Angel: designed for party girls, this collection was all about sparkle.A video posted by Victoria's Secret (@victoriassecret) on Dec 5, 2016 at 7:57pm PST 3) Celebs serenaded the models as they strutted the runwayThe show included performances by Lady Gaga, Bruno Mars and The Weeknd.</img>Model Elsa Hosk struts the runway as musician The Weeknd performs during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France, November 30, 2016. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Model Elsa Hosk struts the runway as musician The Weeknd performs during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France, November 30, 2016. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau </img>Musician Lady Gaga performs as a model presents a creation during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau Musician Lady Gaga performs as a model presents a creation during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Reuters/Charles Platiau </img>Bruno Mars performs as Romee Strijd walks the runway during the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Kristy Sparow/WireImage Bruno Mars performs as Romee Strijd walks the runway during the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show in Paris, France. Image: Kristy Sparow/WireImage 4) This year's Fantasy Bra was worth over R40 millionModeled by Jasmine Tookes, this blinged-out bra was designed by Eddie Borgo and took AWMouzannar Jewelers over 700 hours to hand-craft.It's made up of over 9,000 diamonds and emeralds - weighing a total of more than 450 carats - set in 18 carat gold. The price tag? An estimated $3 million (about R40,896,660).</img>Jasmine Tookes models Victoria's Secret's Bright Night Fantasy Bra. Image: Michele Crowe/CBS via Getty Images Jasmine Tookes models Victoria's Secret's Bright Night Fantasy Bra. Image: Michele Crowe/CBS via Getty Images6) The show featured Victoria's Secret's largest Angel wings everWorn by Joan Small, and made from midnight feathers, these wings extended over 2 metres (7 feet) from the models body.</img>Joan Smalls walks the runway during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show an Paris, France. Image: Taylor Hill/WireImage Joan Smalls walks the runway during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show an Paris, France. Image: Taylor Hill/WireImage READ MORE: What are the secrets behind Victoria s Angel wings?6) SA's very own Victoria's Secret Angel, Candice Swanepoel, wasn't thereHaving given birth to baby Anac in October, Swanepoel was understandable absent from the runway. That said, she hinted on social media that she'll be returning to the Victoria's Secret catwalk in 2017. "Goodluck in paris beautiful ladies! So sad to be missing this show! ... Girls, enjoy the moments together, cant wait to see the show and can't wait for vsfs2017!" said Swanepoel in an Instagram post.A photo posted by Candice Swanepoel (@angelcandices) on Nov 18, 2016 at 5:33am PST