The 27-year-old midfielder said it was "the history of this club" to earn hard-fought results such as the 2-1 victory at Crystal Palace that kept them in the hunt for a top-four place.Back-to-back wins over Tottenham Hotspur and Palace within four days have fuelled belief after a series of frustrating draws in the Premier League and following on from a successful 6000km round-trip to Ukraine in the Europa League, taking them into the last 32, only last Thursday.United know there is no margin for error as they try to close the gap on fourth-placed Manchester City, who they trail by six points, with Spurs between. The intense celebrations at Selhurst Park, with Zlatan Ibrahimovic's late goal earning a 2-1 win, were revealing. Costa uses his head to send Chelsea well clear"We are so happy because we showed our spirit," Herrera said. "This was not our best game but even on a day when we didn't play our best we created six or seven chances."I prefer to win earlier because you can control the game better but a win is a win and even more important when all our rivals won, only Arsenal [from the top seven] lost [away to Everton]. We can take good things from this because we were like a big team who doesn't play at your best but we won."Herrera, becoming an increasingly important member of Jos Mourinho's side, added: "We controlled the game when we were not at our best and that is important. It is the history of this club."Herrera said that one of the major strengths of United is that they possess match-winners who "don't need to play their best game to change it" - as demonstrated by Ibrahimovic and Paul Pogba, who both scored and set each other up."Pogba is Pogba. He can change a game in one second," he said. "He has an unbelievable shot. He can head the ball, he can combine in the box and create something."A concern for United was the loss of Eric Bailly, who limped off injured after being caught knee-high by Palace's Lee Chung-Yong early on.Centreback Bailly was being assessed on Thursday with the defender understood to be confident he is not facing a long time off having just recovered from a knee ligament injury. This time the Ivory Coast international hurt his other knee.The 22-year-old hopes to return for United's Christmas programme with home matches against Sunderland on Boxing Day (December 26) and Middlesbrough on New Year's Eve and away to West Ham United on January 2 before he flies to Gabon to represent his country in the Africa Cup of Nations.If Ivory Coast make it to the final on February 5, Bailly will not be available until United face Watford on February 11, missing up to eight matches. - The Daily Telegraph, London