Serves: 8 Place 4 cups of cubed watermelon in a food processor and blend until smooth. Strain into a jug to remove the pips. Add 125ml (1/3 cup) or more of vodka, gin or white rum and refrigerate till ice cold. To serve, pour 200ml watermelon cocktail into each glass, top with soda water and stir well. Add lots of ice, a sprig of mint and a wedge of lemon, if desired. Seared tuna & watermelon kebabs with salsa Cut watermelon into cubes and sprinkle with a chilli or cajun seasoning. Allow to stand for 15 minutes. Shred some cooked chicken, turkey or duck (this is a great way to use leftovers) and toss lightly in a ready-made barbecue sauce. Preheat a griddle pan till smoking hot and grill the watermelon until nicely marked on both sides. Allow to cool. To serve, create a circular stack of ingredients on each plate: first the watermelon, then a handful of chopped fresh coriander, then the shredded poultry. Sprinkle lightly with chilli flakes (optional). Cut watermelon into small cubes, removing the pips. Wrap each cube in a thin slice of salami, smoked beef or parma ham and push onto kebab sticks or toothpicks. Drizzle with balsamic glaze and serve. Watermelon with gin drizzle & spicy saltsWatermelon and feta cheese came together in the salad made famous by Nigella Lawson, but there are endless variations.For a cool, tangy salad, mix cubed watermelon with rocket, watercress and cubes of English cucumber. Crumble over a wedge of blue cheese and toss with a dressing of olive oil and balsamic vinegar whisked with 1 tsp creamed horseradish. Sprinkle with crushed peanut brittle and serve. Place 750g watermelon cubes in a clean glass jar with 1 finely sliced onion and the zest of 1 lemon. Mix lightly and set aside. In a pan, combine 1 cup rice wine, 1 cup white wine vinegar, cup sugar, 2 tbsp sea salt, a pinch of chilli flakes and a small cinnamon stick. Bring to the boil, then cool completely before pouring over the watermelon mixture. Refrigerate overnight. Serve the pickle in a salad, with ham or turkey as a relish, or as a snack with olives.