"The right oar sliced through air [and] I saw, through the heaving water, a black wall looming. With a panicked push on the other oar, I turned the bow towards the wall, which was kicking back water from its face.I dropped the oars and held on. A blast of water pushed the boat up on its side where it hung for a tense second. Getting high on life in Victoria Falls Through the wash of white, I saw Michael, camera pressed against his eye, still shooting. Then I thought I heard Joanne scream. The boat plunged over, upside down, into the rolling mess."Thus did American adventurer Richard Bangs, leader of the first expedition to raft the Zambezi's Batoka Gorge, describe in his diary his introduction to the river.His raft flipped in the Boiling Pot, just below the Victoria Falls, seconds after they had launched.Five more epic capsizes would follow before they reached calmer waters at Lake Kariba, 100km downstream. It was October 1981 and a new tourism industry was born.The Batoka Gorge is a deep and sinuous canyon into which the Zambezi funnels - at 8 million litres a second in the rainy season - and roils its way to Kariba through 25 rapids with names like Gnashing Jaws of Death, Devil's Toilet Bowl, Overland Truck Eater and The Terminator - with some of Earth's finest white water rafting.After our oar raft, steered by cool-as-a-cucumber guide Steve "The Terminator" Chuma - flipped in The Washing Machine, in which I enjoyed a good thrashing and inhaled much of the river, I can say that Bangs was right to be impressed.At high water in July, when the Zambezi is swollen with rain, many rapids are washed out and day trips cover only the last 10 rapids. The river is much more gnarly in summer at low water - the term is relative when you see the size of the rapids. Trips start at the Boiling Pot.There are numerous outfitters but we went with Livingstone-based operator Safari Par Excellence, which runs trips lasting from one to three days. All rafts are commanded by qualified, highly experienced river guides. Rates from $125 for a day trip include transfers from Livingstone, lunch, cool drinks and - if your boat flips in a rapid - a free swim. Zambia: It's all about the FallsZambia and Zimbabwe are going ahead with a plan to build a hydroelectric dam on the Batoka Gorge. The pool will reach a point just below the Boiling Pot, submerging the spectacular gorge and destroying the rafting. Go soon.For sublime luxury, you want The Royal Livingstone Victoria Falls Zambia Hotel by Anantara, US$719 per double per night). Rates at the equally wonderful Avani Victoria Falls Resort next door are from US$390. These include B&amp;B, taxes and service charges, as well as the US$4 park fee and unlimited access to the falls.British Airways flies daily between Joburg and Livingstone. Return fares currently start around R3,900. Ash was a guest of Safari Par Excellence.