Good news is that growth could edge higher in 2017 if the commodity and agricultural sectors recover, and if US president-elect Donald Trump makes good on his infrastructure plans.Citadel chief strategist Adrian Saville said two factors were likely to contribute to a rosier picture in the new year.The first is the rise in average commodity prices. "Commodity prices are, on average, slightly higher than they were at the end of 2015 and start of 2016."The improvement in commodity prices at the end of this year will translate into better economic growth. Commodity prices alone can add about 1% growth to the economy." Trump is a wild card for emerging marketsHe added that we might see an uptick in agriculture, with the effects of the drought working their way out of the system. That could add a further 0.5% to economic growth."Those two factors - commodities and agriculture - are a swing factor of 1.5% for the country's economic growth story in 2017. If you add that to the base of 0.5% for 2016, we could be looking at 2% growth for the economy in 2017."While Saville is counting on the commodity and agricultural recovery, for BayHill Capital CEO Geoff Blount improved global growth could add 1% to growth and - along with commodities - this could give the economy a 2% lift.Trump has said he plans to spend about $1-trillion (about R14-trillion) during the next 10 years on boosting US growth by channeling it towards infrastructure spend.The Canadian and Japanese governments plan to spend $60.8-billion and $276-billion respectively, which - if combined with US and European spending plans - "could provide a boost for emerging-market commodity economies such as South Africa", said Lesiba Mothata, chief economist at Investment Solutions.This might not mean we are completely out of the woods. To avoid a recession, the economy needs to grow faster than the rate at which the population is growing. In 2016, the growth rate was below 1%, yet the population grew by 1.7%."A 2% growth rate would remain very close to per-capita recession because our population growth is 1.7%," said Saville. "To stand still, we need 1.7% growth."Saville added that ratings agencies require economic growth 1% faster than population growth, "so they need us to show 2.7% growth, and that tells you how far away we are from the minimum required rate".A potential spanner in the works for South Africa and the Reserve Bank could be interest rate hikes in the US, although it remains to be seen how the rand will respond to US Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen's plan to hike rates next year.SA s economic growth slows as impact of drought and uncertainty relating to trade policy direction in US continuesSaville is doubtful that we'll see four rate hikes in the US in 2017. "I think we should rather be guided by experience that Yellen waits for the evidence before she acts. The signal is helpful because it gives you a sense of where they intend to take the economy but I wouldn't say it's a foregone conclusion."The impact of the Fed raising interest rates on South Africa is an indirect one and largely depends on the rand's reaction to a stronger dollar as global investors move money into the US to get a better yield with the higher interest rate.South Africa started hiking interest rates at the end of 2015 on the assumption that the Fed was serious about the extent of its interest rate increases. The Reserve Bank raised the repo rate in anticipation and that, said Saville, had "given us the luxury to pause through 2016 in a weak economic environment".Despite a volatile rand in 2016, inflation is expected to dip in 2017. Blount said South Africa had reached its inflationary peak. "We're bumping at around 6% and we think inflation has peaked ... and that it will come down from here on," said Blount.Saville also said inflation could slow, possibly touching the 4% mark by end 2017.Taking all this into consideration, Saville said indications point to the Reserve Bank not having to do anything in the coming year, at least when it came to the Fed's decision."How the Reserve Bank responds to Fed rate hikes might play into economic policy, but it will not be the biggest factor in how the Reserve Bank maintains fiscal stability," said Saville.