The National Children's Theatre is putting on a week of fun-filled mornings with rhymes and stories to listen to, learn and re-enact.The mornings will be run by actors Genevieve Olivier and Zoe Beavon and will introduce the children to Mother Goose and Dr Seuss and many other beloved children's poets.The 7 cardinal rules of flying with kidsFor older children (8 and up), the camp will focus on the world of Lemony Snicket, aka Daniel Handler, and his A Series of Unfortunate Events. The campers will learn songs, act out scenes and talk about the books' themes - good versus evil, greed, rules and order, sadness, yout and so on.If you'd like a theatre outing for the family, their charming production of Mr Popper's Penguins is on until December 23.WHERE: 3 Junction Avenue, Parktown, Johannesburg.WHEN: Week days, December 8 - 14, 9am-noon.COST: R250 per day (for the younger group) or R1,300 for the whole week (both groups).CONTACT: Phone 011-484-1584; e-mail bookings@nctt.org.za; or see nationalchildrenstheatre.org.za.The Cherry Tomatoes gardening club aims to introduce young children (aged 3 - 7) to the fascinating world of gardening and the journey of food from the soil to the table.Their holiday programme is four days of exploring nature and healthy eating at two venues in Joburg: one in Craighall Park and one in Bryanston.This is a fun, hands-on, social programme with lots of learning outside of the traditional curriculum. Classes are themed and consist of discussion time, arts and crafts, healthy snack time, story time and a take-home project. Naturally, there'll be lots of time spent digging and playing in the soil.WHERE: REEA Foundation Vegetable Gardens, Marlborough Avenue, Craighall Park; and the Garden Shop in Bryanston (corner Main Road and Halifax Street). Junction Avenue, Parktown, Johannesburg.WHEN: December 12 - 15 from 9am-12pm.COST: R1,000.CONTACT: Call Nicola on 071-883-5584 or Patricia on 079-895-1332 or e-mail cherrytomatoesgc@gmail.com.</img>The Cherry Tomatoes gardening club aims to introduce little ones to the wonder of plants. Image: Supplied SuppliedThe Cherry Tomatoes gardening club aims to introduce little ones to the wonder of plants. Image: Supplied SuppliedRun by a British-based non-profit organisation, Kings Camps will keep the kids stimulated and active with a range of activities for 4 - 17-year-olds.They offer a staggering selection, with 30 different sports and activities including cricket, soccer, rugby, swimming, dance and drama making up the days.The camps are not competitive but are about instilling a love of being active while allowing the children to build confidence, learn skills, make new friends and, above all, have fun.The kids are divided up by age with age-appropriate activities and every day ends with awards and certificates of achievement. Parents are invited to attend the final event on the Friday.WHERE: Kingsmead College in Oxford Road, Melrose.WHEN: December 12 - 16, with full days, short days and mornings-only options.COST: From R700 per week (or R185 per day) for the short day (8am-2.30pm).CONTACT: Phone 087-550-2370; e-mail info@kingscamps.co.za or see kingscamps.co.za.If you haven't had a chance to do it yet, City Sightseeing's Red Joburg bus is a treat for all ages. The buses run every half hour from 9am (leaving Park Station) and stop at several spots - just pick the ones that will most thrill the children.The James Hall Transport Museum and the Newtown Precinct (with the Sci-Bono Discovery Centre) and the Origins Centre at Wits are good options. There is an add-on trip to Soweto, which includes Orlando Towers and Vilakazi Street, and there are free walking tours of the city centre and Braamfontein at set times.A new route, the Green, is expected to launch this month, with stops at Zoo Lake and the Joburg Zoo.COST: From R170 for a one-day ticket.CONTACT: See citysightseeing.co.za/johannesburg.</img>City Sightseeing's Red bus tour of Joburg is fun for all ages. Image: citysightseeing.co.za City Sightseeing's Red bus tour of Joburg is fun for all ages. Image: citysightseeing.co.za What's Christmas in Africa without a rotund guy in a red suit, some twinkling lights, carol singing and even some fake snow? There are several places you can get your northern hemisphere on these holidays.At the Rosebank Mall, meet Santa from December 19 - 24, or do a cookie workshop for R20 per person. At Eastgate, meet Santa again and partake in a range of activities from lip-sync battles to dance-offs - and meet the Trolls.The Mall of Africa is promising to outdo them all, though, with the Fantasy of Light, a dreamland of sparkly installations. Tickets also get you access to The Secret Castle pantomime, described as "Cirque du Soleil meets Christmas cheer".WHERE: Waterfall City, Mall of Africa.WHEN: Gates open at 6pm, Monday to Sunday. Shows 8pm.COST: R120 for adults, R80 for under-18s and seniors.CONTACT: Book through computicket.co.za.