Pharma Dynamics says there are an estimated 30% of South Africans who suffer from hayfever. Mariska van Aswegen spokesperson for Pharma Dynamics says last year was the hottest year on earth since record-taking began but 2016 is expected to blow this record out of the water. She says hot and dry conditions could result in an extended pollen season. Pollen is not necessarily the cause of your hayfeverThe hayfever season typically starts with trees pollinating from August until October. However grass pollen then takes over with its greatest peak from November to March. According to SA s foremost authorities on aerobiology climate change will significantly increase the amount of pollen in the air with average world temperatures forecast to rise 3 C to 4 C by as early as 2060. "Warmer temperatures allow trees to pollinate earlier and longer than usual. Spring in many countries already begins much earlier than a few decades ago which means that pollen-producing plants such as flowers trees grasses and weeds have a much longer pollen-producing season than in the past. "Should the predicted combination of prolonged periods of warm dry weather with intervals of some wet weather occur we ll experience high grass pollen counts for some time. People who live in towns and cities where there are higher levels of traffic pollution are at greater risk. Van Aswegen says that the tiny particulates released by diesel fuel irritate the lining of the nasal passages and lungs making them more sensitive. When an allergen such as pollen is also present the airways are already primed to react which could lead to a more severe allergic response. 7 interesting facts you may not know about allergiesSuffer from allergies? Try Van Aswegen's tips: Check the pollen forecast in your area or holiday spot either online or in the local newspaper to plan outdoor activities and avoid being outside when the pollen count is highest which is usually early in the morning and evening. Keep doors and windows closed during peak pollen times. Apply balm or petroleum jelly around the rim of your nose which can act as a pollen-trap. Alternatively block pollen and other irritants by wearing a mask or bandanna over your nose and mouth. If the pollen count is very high opt for less intense exercises. The faster you breathe the more allergens and irritants you inhale. If planning a road trip turn your car s air conditioner on 10 minutes before you get in the car preferably with the windows open which will help remove dust and mould from the air-conditioning (AC) system. Keep car windows closed when driving to prevent pollen and other irritants from entering the car. If you re hiring a car ask for a model that comes with a high efficiency particulate filter as part of the AC system. Protect your eyes during the day by wearing sunglasses and rinsing contact lenses to get rid of dust and pollen particles.