The unnamed buyer paid R730,000 for one bottle of a limited edition Balvenie 50-year-old single-malt whisky.The whisky had been put on the market by Norman Goodfellows as part of its festive range. With about 30 tots in a bottle, each one would cost R24,300.Other opulent and expensive tipples are a 50-year-old Glenfiddich for R650,000, the Balvenie 40-year-old at R125,000, Chivas Regal The Icon and Macallan M Decanter for R50,000 each, a 40-year-old Glenfiddich at R80,000, Port Ellen 37-year-old at R47,000, The John Walker at R35,000, John Walker and Sons Odyssey at R15,000, Appleton 50-year-old rum for R130,000 and Richard Hennessy cognac for R40,000. Clock running down for no-tech wristwatches According to the Norman Goodfellows festive season catalogue, the R730,000 Balvenie whisky is out of stock.Nicole Woolfson, marketing manager for Norman Goodfellows, said the 50-year-old Balvenie and Glenfiddich were bought by South Africans. She would not say how many were sold."Our sales are up on last year, which is a good reflection of the year."It is generally the time of year when the high-end items sell, although we pride ourselves on stocking the rare, valuable collectives all year round," said Woolfson.In keeping with the opulence of the Balvenie, the bottle is packaged in a case made up of 49 layers of wood in a ring design.Jonathan Miles, founder of the Whisky Academy, said the exotic brands were for the super rich."There are people who still buy these crazy-priced products. But it is very much a collector's area, or people who have money they don't really need."They do sell, but to people who do not want to be identified," said Miles.Three years ago the Balvenie 50-year-old sold for R350,000."The price has appreciated because it has become more scarce and valuable," he said.Miles, who has tasted it, described the Balvenie as a beautiful whisky."I believe whisky is to be shared. To buy a bottle of whisky and leave it unopened on a shelf is a waste of time."He said only a few bottles would be allocated to different parts of the world.He said only 12 bottles of the 60-year-old Glenfarclas were available in South Africa this year. Seven of the dozen bottles sold for R360,000 each. Bubbly is black diamonds' new bling "The general whisky drinkers who drink the Glenfiddichs and Macallans don't mind spending a bit. But a couple of thousand is probably their limit."But if whisky is not your thing, and if you like a little bit of bling with your booze, you can also order a diamond bubbly. The bottle comes with a diamond included.Cape Town's First Diamond and Stellenbosch wine estate Simonsig have collaborated to produce Diamant Classique, a bottle of sparkling wine - with a diamond included - priced from R14,000.And yes, the diamond is real: as the bubbly is poured, a quarter-carat diamond encased in a striking blown-glass capsule is revealed.The diamond is designed to be worn as a pendant.Heidi Wahl, brand and marketing manager for First Diamonds, said 0.25 of a carat was the standard option available."The premium option can be tailored to your budget as the cost will depend on the individual stone selected. This option is designed for the perfect proposal."We have found that some men don't know what their ladies want in an engagement ring and it can be a daunting task getting the design of her dream ring right."With Diamant Classique's premium option you have the opportunity to blow her mind with an extremely unique proposal and custom-design her dream ring," said Wahl.