The year started with the country still reeling from those four days last December when President Jacob Zuma sacked Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister without any explanation or regard for how the markets would react. He replaced him with Des van Rooyen, a political novice whose only experience in civil service was as mayor of a local municipality in the west of Gauteng. He, too, was sacked - and replaced by Pravin Gordhan. The chopping and changing of finance ministers, a relatively rare occurrence in developed and stable democracies, roiled the markets, sent the rand to record lows against the dollar and put the economy on the back foot for the better part of the first quarter. Nearly R50-billion was wiped off the JSE. Despite this Zuma, who is clearly clueless about how the economy should be managed, is yet to acknowledge the pain he has inflicted on the economy. Just last week he told the ANC Youth League in Durban that he does not owe the nation an explanation.Here are a few curveballs 2017 might throw at the world The downhill for Zuma, the ANC - and the country - started with the damning Constitutional Court ruling on Nkandla in March. It found that Zuma had failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution as the supreme law of the land - driving a wedge deeper between Zuma loyalists in the ANC and those who believe he is a liability. So damning was the ruling that it forced an apology from Zuma, who had spent years denying that he had benefited from taxpayer money being used to upgrade his Nkandla home.A month later, a full bench of the High Court in Pretoria dealt the president and the ANC another severe blow when it ruled that the 783 fraud, racketeering and corruption charges against Zuma withdrawn by the National Prosecuting Authority in 2009 be reinstated. The NPA appealed the ruling, but the Constitutional Court refused to hear the appeal "for now".All of which came as the ruling party prepared to contest a local government election billed as the most important poll since the first democratic election in 1994. With the ANC's back against the wall and pressure mounting on Zuma, voters registered their displeasure, refusing to endorse a compromised president and voting against the party. As a result, the ANC lost three critical metropolitan municipalities - the City of Johannesburg, Nelson Mandela Bay and the City of Tshwane - thereby leaving the management of the country's administrative (Pretoria) and legislative (Cape Town) capitals in the hands of the opposition. The biggest blow, however, came last month with the release of the State of Capture report, in which the pubic protector presented compelling evidence that friends of Zuma were running a network of patronage to benefit from state contracts.We must brace for a bumpy ride in 2017, which is shaping up to be a most challenging year for the ANC - the source of most of our problems. There is hope, though. Civil society organisations and ordinary South Africans from all walks of life are finding their voices. Nonetheless, it is the voices from within the ANC that must speak loudest. They must refuse to be silenced - South Africa needs them now more than ever.