Traffic authorities are bracing for another round of high traffic volumes and violations on national roads as the New Year's festivities start and holidaymakers begin their trek home from mainly coastal destinations.The latest statistics show a 17% increase in the road death toll from last year, with horrific crashes claiming the lives of 845 people since December 1. Coastal cities look forward to a record New Year's weekend The government has expressed concern about the high number of deaths this year.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters said at the release of the festive season assessment last week that the human factor had contributed to 82% of fatal road crashes, environmental factors 10% and vehicles 8%."Far too many of our people have died needlessly on our roads due to the negligent and arrogant behaviour of a few people who chose not to obey the rules of the road."Peters has told her traffic force to adopt zero tolerance to motorists who disobey the law.The Road Traffic Management Corporation's preliminary figures show that 4500 people were arrested for drunken driving and more than 300 for speeding."Most of the drunk driving arrests were concentrated in Gauteng. We've also seen high numbers in holiday destinations like KwaZulu-Natal and the Western Cape," said RTMC spokesman Simon Zwane.The statistics were expected to change significantly after the long weekend."We've had more than 300 roadblocks throughout South Africa. Over 390,000 fines have been issued ... these varied from speeding to overloading." Speeding drunk drivers and death on the roads over the dark long weekend in the Western Cape Twelve people died in separate incidents in Gauteng, Limpopo and the Free State this week.Last Friday, traffic came to a standstill on the N3 near Harrismith after a truck and a car collided and burst into flames. Three people, including two children, died. Paramedics said the family were trapped and burnt to death, while the truck driver jumped to safety.Arrive Alive spokesman Johan Jonck said: "[Judging] from crash reports ... and e-mails and tweets by the public, there is definitely not an improved attitude towards driving."Unsafe overtaking, impatience and an inability to adjust to driving conditions had contributed to accidents, Jonck said."Also unacceptable [is] the number of head-on crashes - usually caused by unsafe overtaking, driver fatigue, distracted driving or drunk driving."The Automobile Association of South Africa said the death toll was "dismaying"."A breakdown of the figures is showing a trend - a lack of interpersonal respect among motorists. Once again driver attitude is the cause of many of the fatal crashes and it is a problem that appears to be getting worse," said AA spokesman Layton Beard. Top 5 hazardous routes N2 - KZN, Eastern Cape and Western CapeN1 - Limpopo, Free State, Western CapeR61 - Eastern CapeN3 - KZNN4 - Mpumalanga and North West