In February 2015, 100 or so journalists waited in an auditorium in Liverpool to hear what surprise announcement the BBC was about to make. A new channel, perhaps, or a Downton Abbey spoof starring Joanna Lumley and Jennifer Saunders?The two men who walked diffidently onto the stage and took their places in two armchairs were not what we expected. One was a slim, elegant chap no one recognised. The other, also slim and improbably tall, was Rowan Atkinson.Coming attractions: 8 books being adapted for the big screenAtkinson in person showed none of the acid disdain of Blackadder, nor the garbled sneering of Mr Bean. Members of the audience watched him closely, hoping his long limbs would break out of their relaxed position and start doing a tarantella; anticipating that he would lose control of his facial features and lapse into comic gurning.But this was the real Rowan Atkinson - quiet, contemplative and enormously eloquent - not one of the characters with whom he has become synonymous. His legs remained neatly crossed and his expression calmly serious. His companion was John Simenon, son of the late novelist Georges Simenon, creator of the fictional detective Maigret.They were there to tell us that the Simenon trust had given permission for the making of two feature-length Maigret films, with Atkinson as the pipe-smoking protagonist.Those unfamiliar with the life and works of Georges Simenon may not immediately have grasped the weightiness of this revelation, but as John and Atkinson answered questions, its profundity was clearly apparent.John and his siblings loved their father but his prodigious output (he wrote more than 500 novels, 75 of them about Maigret) meant they did not see much of him. John said he looked upon Maigret as a member of the family, the fictional brother who may have stolen much of their father's time, but whose legacy has been left to John to protect.The last time Maigret appeared on screen was in the Granada series filmed in 1992, starring Michael Gambon. The gifted Gambon spoke in his own English accent with a slight French cadence and used his long hands to great effect, winning himself a Bafta and the series a best drama award, but by today's slick TV standards the series was a somewhat turgid period set-piece.The new one, said John, would be both sharper and darker, true to the intentions his father wished to set on the page, and he could think of no one better than Atkinson to play a character of such depth and reason.WATCH the trailer for Maigret Sets A Trap More than a year later, Atkinson took a break between filming the last scenes of the new Maigret episodes to speak on the phone. He and John had become close friends, he said, and their collaboration in bringing the detective back to life (John is the show's executive producer) had been arduous but thrilling."John has been involved from the beginning," said Atkinson. "He was one of the factors that drew me in because I so liked him and so believed in him and his knowledge of the oeuvre and the books and of the character is very great and very significant. He lives with the responsibility of looking after his father's work. He has visited the set regularly and I think I'm right in saying he's very pleased with what he has seen."Atkinson had some initial reservations about taking on the role. "I was very apprehensive. I've always felt much more comfortable playing characters that are distant from my own personality - I've always wanted to wear a mask I suppose. It wasn't the seriousness of the role that was the challenge. It was the ordinariness.I had to find a way of dealing with a very normal guy that I had to play in a very naturalistic, low-key way, which is something I've never done. I found the first couple of weeks of filming very difficult but in the end the rule is 'do less' - don't try to say the lines in a particularly interesting or theatrical way. The main job of an actor is not to play a part, it's to tell a story."Finding the truth of the character at the heart of the stories was more a philosophical than a physical matter, said Atkinson."Maigret hasn't got a limp and he hasn't got a lisp and he doesn't speak in a French accent and he doesn't have a great love of opera . the only thing that distinguishes him is his pipe. What is interesting about Maigret is that he wants to understand but not judge. I didn't speed him up. My natural mode is quite ruminative and thoughtful - it's something I find easy to do.The only odd thing is the physicality of Maigret; my physicality is quite different from how he is described in the novels. The good thing is that I'm relatively tall. But apart from that I hope the thoughtful and ruminative tone of the character is something that I've been able to capture."</img>Jules Maigret (Rowan Atkinson) and Lapointe (Leo Staar) during filming. Image: SuppliedJules Maigret (Rowan Atkinson) and Lapointe (Leo Staar) during filming. Image: SuppliedThe two features are set in Paris in 1955, a time and place which Atkinson described as "glamorous and jolly but with a very seedy underbelly."The subject matter has a contemporary feel to it, which is why the idea of updating it never arose. We felt it was ripe for revival and re-dramatising because Maigret's world is pretty hard-edged. It's a very different world from our own, yet the human characters are still much as they would be today. So I hope people find these stories engaging. And I think they will."John Simenon called it "a great gift" that people still love his father's work. "It's a tribute to his talent, his universality and also to the man he was," he said. "So many things have been written about him. He was not an easy man. But he was a good man. He had a lot of anxieties. But his sense of ethics was very high."Atkinson said this was evident in Maigret's morality: "I think he's very sympathetic to people who are involved in a crime, which is not the attitude of every fictional detective . he wants to get into the characters to prove to himself that there is a decent heart there, that there is decency in the world, that good will triumph over evil." In Maigret Sets A Trap (8pm, Jan 1), the inspector has to find a serial killer during a sweltering Paris summer. In Maigret's Dead Man (8pm, Jan 8), an obscure Parisian murder is linked to gang attacks on wealthy farmers. Both on BBC First (DStv channel 119).