It is the calibre of the talent lost that has recently raised eyebrows."It is a question more relevant to those particular players. What drives them to suddenly want to take up those options?" asked Lorgat in reference to test players like Hardus Viljoen, Stiaan van Zyl and Simon Harmer who have taken up Kolpak contracts in England, rendering them off limits for national selection. Award winner De Kock central to SA plans for Sri Lankan seriesThe Kolpak ruling allows players from countries with ties to the European Union to play in the county championship.Another former international, Colin Ingram, has plied his trade as a Kolpak player with Glamorgan, and provincial teammate Colin Ackerman has agreed to play for Leicestershire and also be regarded as a non-overseas player.Smash-and-grab opener Richard Levi followed the Kolpak route in 2014. This week, it emerged that test spinner Dane Piedt may do the same.Emerging talent like Willie Ludik, Dean Foxcroft and Evan Jones are also leaving, some hoping to find space in New Zealand's shallow playing pool."It may well be one of their considerations," said Lorgat when asked whether the UK's impending exit from the European Union may be at the heart of the sudden flurry north."Maybe they are being advised to consider it. You don't know what is going to happen when Brexit is implemented and the Kolpak option perhaps no longer exists."Some will, of course, beat the drum that CSA's transformation policy features in players' deliberations when weighing up their options. Lorgat was firm, however, that South Africa's cream finds a way to the top."If you're good enough you're going to make it. If you think you are on the margins and thinking of a safety-first approach which is to secure a contract offshore, we should remember that it is not unique to cricket," he said. "In other professions people go and pursue careers abroad. Our weak currency is an issue and we must remember it is a very mobile world that we live in. It is not even a uniquely South African thing."If their purse strings weren't so tightly gripped, one administrator who chose to remain anonymous argued that CSA can provide more playing opportunity on the domestic scene. CSA will need to see the lights before day/night Test cricket sees the light in SA The organisation is grappling with a full review of its structures and one option under consideration is to increase the number of franchises that play first-class cricket.Another insider who did not want to be named said it was a no-brainer."We absolutely need to expose more players to first-class cricket. CSA already has the obligation to increase the number of African black players to first-class cricket, so surely if you've more teams your vehicle for producing talent becomes bigger."The source said he would be in favour of a 12-franchise system."I've heard the current [six team] set-up will remain as is," said another high-ranking official. "I would be in favour of an eight-team top tier."Lorgat said no firm decisions have been made but that the picture will become clearer by the end of next month following a board meeting."The basis of the review is to create access for players, and we want excellence at the same time," he said."Those are the fundamental requirements of our review."