Where and when did BLANDAT start?It developed two years ago, when I decided I wanted to make my illustrations more accessible to a larger market. The idea was to create an alternative to the popular African wax print.I studied art with a focus on textiles, and have had a long list of jobs in fashion and marketing, so it was a natural progression. Meet the Maker: Monya Eastman of StokperdWhat does the name mean?BLANDAT means mixed in Swedish, and can refer to colour, technique, or anything, really. The name fits both me and the product.I'm a Dutch girl living in South Africa, where I sometimes feel lost in translation. And my work is very mixed too - the technique, the diversity and the ways in which I use my prints - I throw them on pretty much everything.As you mentioned, you are originally from the Netherlands. Has living in South Africa affected your style at all?I definitely now use more colour and more contrasts. In the Netherlands I was quite careful with colour and tended to go for pastel, soft tones.I'd also say the subjects and boldness of my prints have changed; I have lost some boundaries in that way.What is your favourite product to make out of your textiles?As much as I like to see my prints on garments, I also love interiors with a bit of fun and edginess.I'm busy with a great new project for interior upholstery, where my designs will be used together with South Africa's finest interior designers.What's the most interesting way you've seen one of your products used?I recently made a wall piece, comprised of a large-format print on fabric.It's almost like a new kind of tapestry, so instead of using wallpaper, the print is on fabric. It's a great alternative to paintings or wallpaper. It also gives the illustration a classic reference.South African designers you love?When it comes to fashion I think Rich Mnisi is great. His sense of styling is very international, almost Scandinavian in its look and feel. For interiors I like Doktor and Misses a lot; they are so fresh and inventive.</img>Debby van der Veer uses colour and contrast to produce breathtaking textiles. Image: Supplied Debby van der Veer uses colour and contrast to produce breathtaking textiles. Image: SuppliedA design tip for our readers?Use bold prints. You simply have to dare yourself and get out of your comfort zone. Upholster an old chair or couch and you'll get a totally new look. Even a piece of printed cloth hanging against the wall will give your space an effortless new feel.Good design is...Inventive, smart and unknown. Design is always a reflection of the times.The advantages of being a designer in Africa?With the right amount of patience you can do so many things that are not possible in Europe. This is a place to experiment and discover. And let's not forget the inspiration that is on your doorstep.Visit Blandat-studio.com