It is a close call between the Tottenham Hotspur captain, Manchester United's David de Gea and Kasper Schmeichel of Leicester City, but Lloris has been in outstanding form, conceding just 31 goals in 34 Premier League matches and also proving to be a great influence on a young group of players. Now 30, he has made crucial saves and also helps set up Spurs' attacking play and has committed his long-term future to the club.The 21-year-old has emerged as one of the most influential fullbacks in the Premier League which boasts several outstanding candidates on the right-hand side, in particular. The bold, the bizarre and beautiful soccer memories of 2016Incredibly quick, his importance has been underlined recently when he was out of the Arsenal team through injury and by the fact that he was coveted so highly by Manchester City last summer before agreeing a new six-year deal. The Spaniard is run close by another north London fullback - Kyle Walker of Spurs - while Cesar Azpilicueta has been brilliant, albeit in a back three.Since his 13-million arrival from Celtic, the 25-year-old has got better and better and has now usurped Jose Fonte as Southampton's most important and dominant defender. He has banished any thoughts that he might not make the step up. The Dutch centreback - with more than five years on his contract - even has a valuation of 60-million placed on him by his club to ward off any interest from Manchester City and Everton.The Belgium international is probably the best central defender in the Premier League. It is unarguable that there is a dearth of top-quality centrehalves but Alderweireld, 27, is an exception. He has forged an impressive partnership with his compatriot Jan Vertonghen, but it is clear that he is the leader. He was missed through injury earlier this season, not least in Spurs' disappointing Champions League campaign. His nearest challenger would be Arsenal's Laurent Koscielny or Leicester City's Robert Huth and Wes Morgan - on last season's form.Rose's Spurs captain, Hugo Lloris, recently compared him and teammate Kyle Walker to the legendary French fullback pairing of Bixente Lizarazu and Lilian Thuram. They work superbly together with their high energy levels and ability to get forward and provide a goal threat. Rose is the only Englishman to make the XI and has carried on his fine form from last season. An honourable mention also for Leicester City's Christian Fuchs.Like all of his Leicester City teammates, Mahrez has struggled to maintain the incredible heights of last season. Even so, there have been glimpses of the 25-year-old's extraordinary ability - not least in that wonderful cushioned pass to set up Jamie Vardy in the recent league win over Manchester City. </img>Paris Saint-Germain midfielder Javier Pastore (L) and Leicester City midfielder Riyad Mahrez (R) battle for a ball during their International Champions Cup (ICC) football matchat StubHub Center in Carson, California on July 30, 2016. Image: RINGO CHIU / AFP Paris Saint-Germain midfielder Javier Pastore (L) and Leicester City midfielder Riyad Mahrez (R) battle for a ball during their International Champions Cup (ICC) football matchat StubHub Center in Carson, California on July 30, 2016. Image: RINGO CHIU / AFP Mahrez has been instrumental, though, in Leicester winning their group and reaching the last 16 of the Champions League. A close rival would be Liverpool's Adam Lallana, who is getting better and better and is England's most important player right now.The Frenchman has been the player of 2016 - and would need to be at his best in this attacking lineup. Still, it is often said that he can do the work of two players and so it has proved, first with Leicester and now with Chelsea. He has started and finished the year top of the league, the only player who can boast that and is already proving a 30-million snip. There is simply no one who comes close to offering what he can provide. Maybe if Michael Carrick at Manchester United had played more often he would have been considered.The Brazilian has the ability to become one of the best players in the world and, cruelly, was beginning to show that consistently for Liverpool before his recent injury. The biggest clubs in Europe - Real Madrid and Barcelona - have been monitoring his progress, so highly do they rate Coutinho's potential. </img>Philippe Coutinho has brought Brazilian football magic to his position at Liverpool. Image: REUTERS Lee SmithPhilippe Coutinho has brought Brazilian football magic to his position at Liverpool. Image: REUTERS Lee SmithSadly for Liverpool, it does feel only a matter of time before he leaves but his skill and trickery have been a major contribution to their title challenge. Manchester City's Kevin de Bruyne has produced wonderful performances also and, in terms of ability, is probably closest to Coutinho.The 24-year-old started the year as Southampton's most dangerous forward and ends it - following a 34-million summer move - as part of a tremendously attacking Liverpool side in which he seamlessly interchanges along the forward line, with his blistering pace and eye for goal. The big-money move has not disrupted the Senegal international's progress. West Ham United's Dimitri Payet has extraordinary ability and, even in a season when he and his team have struggled, he still creates a huge number of chances. But he has looked distracted.Despite their star-studded, expensively assembled array of attacking options, there is no doubt that Manchester City are simply not the same without Ag ero. They are managing at present but even when he is not fully fit or on form, the Argentine has an extraordinary eye for goal and ability to score very quickly. Such is his potency that he would give any team a chance of victory. This season his goal tally is behind Chelsea's Diego Costa, just as last season he was behind Spurs' Harry Kane, but he remains the Premier League's best striker. How Chelsea's Conte created a team with potential to be the best yetIt was not an easy campaign for S nchez last season - he seemed unsettled, maybe unhappy - at Arsenal and this season his contribution has been accompanied by the ongoing discussion as to whether he will agree a new long-term contract. The Chile international, though, often sets the tone for his team and it is surprising that it has taken club manager Ars ne Wenger so long to use him through the middle, even if he is comfortable out wide. Eden Hazard of Chelsea would challenge his inclusion - but not over the whole of last year.It has to be the Leicester City manager. They were always unlikely to retain their title but their form this season has been disappointing - although they are in the last 16 of the Champions League. Such was his amazing stewardship of the Foxes last season in winning the Premier League title, though, that he has to be the right choice. His nearest challenger? Eddie Howe, whose Bournemouth side play good football and have never looked in danger of being relegated.