On Christmas Day, Day of Goodwill and New Year's Eve, those with cash to splash will be forking out for private chefs - some charging around R1,500 per person - to produce dining extravaganzas for their guests. The demand for private chefs to concoct elaborate festive fare is so huge this year that some chefs have had to turn away clients who want to be served, entertained and fed in the privacy of their homes.The chefs say discreet lunch and dinner parties have become all the rage among business executives, government officials, celebrities, doctors and accountants - whose identities are closely guarded by the culinary masters.Celebrity private chef Neill Anthony - whose 13-part show on Food Network gave him international recognition - is fully booked for the summer holiday.Anthony, who trained in UK celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay's kitchen, has seen an increase in the number of clients wanting to "recreate the restaurant experience" in their homes."Yes, there are more clients wanting the private chef experience over the festive period. It is often considered a treat and this is the time that people want to relax and not spend time food shopping or cooking."</img>Wayne Burgin, executive chef and director at Chef Knows Best, brings the finer touches. Image: Supplied Wayne Burgin, executive chef and director at Chef Knows Best, brings the finer touches. Image: Supplied Anthony said he "gets the call" if clients wanted a special meal cooked with ingredients that were difficult to source.On the Day of Goodwill, Anthony will prepare a massive seafood spread."There will be crayfish, tuna, prawns and kingklip cooked on an open fire. It will be finished off with a classic custard tart." He was tight-lipped about his rates, saying he charges a service fee and a per person rate and has prepared meals for between 10 and 100 people, among them royals and celebrities. Miles Reolon, chef and director of Seasoned, which also provides a private chef service, has been inundated this season.Reolon, his chef wife, Itami, and their "Christmas elves" - chefs, waiters and barmen - will be working tirelessly."The private chef experience is becoming increasingly popular, including Christmas and New Year's Eve."His diners - most in the "upper-income bracket" - commissioned holiday chefs to spoil friends and family."We have many festive season menus - from classic to contemporary, to the tailor-made options," Reolon said.His prices vary and he and his staff cook, clean and tidy up "just like the elves would".Chef Juan Fourie, who started his boutique catering company Private Chefs with his wife, Samantha, charges between R580 and R1500 a person to prepare a Christmas meal. A popular menu of theirs includes fire-roasted guinea fowl roulade, rooibos smoked trout, honey warthog carpaccio and a sour cherry tart."We started getting inquiries about two months ago and I am still receiving mails and calls daily. We have been fully booked for the entire festive season ... We will be cooking in Kruger Park, Johannesburg and Knysna."</img>Husband and wife team Miles and Itami Reolon, who own Seasoned, prepare dinner for a private client. Image: Supplied Husband and wife team Miles and Itami Reolon, who own Seasoned, prepare dinner for a private client. Image: Supplied Executive chef Wayne Burgin, of Chef Knows Best, has had to turn down clients."All our chefs have been booked for holiday-makers travelling with guests to holiday homes."His team will be preparing meals for three weeks at Cape Town holiday homes, as well as private bush reserves.Burgin - who charges around R350 per person for a three-course meal - has devised a variety of menus, including tequila prawn salad with goat's cheese and walnuts, and duck fillet roast and wild berry and pear crumble."Having a private chef allows the client to entertain and relax ... and not worry about burning the food," said Burgin.