We returned 14 years later with the result of that love and fresh air - three children.And then again, unencumbered 29 years on to fulfil a dream not yet realised in this famous park of plenty.This dream was to view a leopard. To be fair, it was my dream since the H (husband) had squeezed in an all-male visit to the park in 2001 and been granted that wish. Accidental Tourist: The road most travelled must be in IndiaOh, I'd seen these lithe speedsters on TV a hundred times. But this only served to further whet my appetite for witnessing this feline in the flesh. I'd pictured said creature lounging in a lovely acacia tree at a distance, all regal and nonplussed.And so that's where I focused my efforts from the moment we entered - heavenward - in search of a leopard in a park that's bigger than several European countries.The presence of Africa's other majestic beasts was evident almost everywhere, given the crippling drought. The vegetation had all but shriveled away and so, within two days, we had consistently viewed buffalo, elephant, rhino, lion and so many more of the good Lord's creatures . but no leopard.Oh, we'd witnessed posses of SUVs and 4x4s jostling for ringside seats, and I am embarrassed to admit that we joined them in our ordinary sedan car time and again in the hope it was a leopard they were ogling. But it wasn't - lions gorging on a giraffe; and a python constricting an impala, yes, but no spotted cat with swag.And then we spotted her. Not up where I had visualised, but right under our noses, confidently sitting alongside the road overlooking a dried riverbed awash with small buck. The moment was so mesmerising I didn't even notice the posse that gathered around us and my lovely leopard.My wish had come true. I should have stopped then, acknowledged the moment, reflected and closed the Leopard Chapter of my life.Instead, I booked a night drive the very same day, greedy for more.So there we were at 8pm, H and I, doubling the average age of the other couples, those living on love and fresh air.(Well, not actually, since these Europeans, Americans and Brits could at least afford the night drive. It was something we could never have afforded during those pre-children honeymoon days.)But we were all there with our love of the bush and our lust for leopards (well, me anyway).We were not there with our raincoats. Accidental Tourist: Things I learnt behind barsThat night, the same afternoon that Joburg was swamped with four inches of rain in less than an hour, we did not see a leopard.In fact, we only saw the ubiquitous impala, a shrub hare and an angry elephant whose silhouette will forever be etched in my mind - flapping ears illuminated against an angry African night sky.It rained cats and dogs, or rather, lions and leopards. No doubt the animal kingdom wallowed in the wet, and so they ought to have after the prolonged drought, as we whimpered in that same wet in the back of an open game vehicle. Leopards were the last thing on my mind.After 90 minutes of attempted animal viewing, a cry came from the rear of the vehicle. Not elephant, not hyena, lion or even leopard, but "car wash!"Car wash, indeed, as the mud, rain and possible end-of-a-drought splattered us. So that's why I'd been looking heavenward - for rain for our thirsty land. Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za