These two are most famous as the mainstays of the 4x100m freestyle relay team that won gold at the 2000 Athens Olympics, but they were often foes facing off in the 100m freestyle.Neethling had the upper hand until Schoeman hit his peak at the 2004 Athens Olympics and the 2005 world championships. By the 2006 Commonwealth Games, Neethling was again winning the 100m duels.The two also faced off as rivals in the short-course pool, duelling in the 100m individual medley. Watch this space: exciting times ahead for sprinters and triathletesThey traded the world record, with Schoeman breaking it in January 2005 and Neethling taking it four days later and lowering it twice more in a matter of weeks.When Manyisa had the equally militant midget in Andile Jali by his side, he often got the best out of 'Yeye". Once the junior ace left for Belgium, he left the creative playmaker on his own and Letsholonyane dominated Manyisa ever since.It didn't change in the Telkom Knockout Cup semifinal where Letsholonyane dominated proceedings while Manyisa was a stranger.While South African football is short on rivalries, this one persists even though Letsholonyane has moved to a new club.From 2000 until 2008, South Africa had at least one competitor in the men's 400m hurdles final at the Olympic Games. Llewellyn Herbert and Alwyn Myburgh were both in Sydney 2000 and Athens 2004, where they were joined by Ockert Cilliers.Myburgh, who was seventh in the Athens final, also went to Beijing 2008 along with Ter de Villiers and LJ van Zyl, who ended fifth. It's no accident that three South African hurdlers again went to the Rio Games.</img>Rivalrly is also rampant among SA's 400 m hurdlers and LJ van Zyl is no stranger to that. Image: Rivalrly is also rampant among SA's 400 m hurdlers and LJ van Zyl is no stranger to that. Image: For boxing, this could have been Brian Mitchell versus Dingaan Thobela, had they actually fought, or better still, Vuyani Bungu, Lehlohonolo Ledwaba and Cassius Baloyi, but they got around to fighting only once they were on the downhill slide.Coetzee and Knoetze, on the other hand, were young bucks on the up when they traded leather in late 1976.Coetzee won a narrow points decision, aided by his knockdown of Knoetze in the early rounds. Both went on to enter the WBA elimination series after Muhammad Ali had vacated the title, and both lost to eventual winner John Tate. Coetzee won the WBA title in 1983, by which time the ill-disciplined Knoetze had retired.In the late 70s and through most of the 80s the most enduring rivalry on the domestic cricket front was waged between Garth le Roux and Clive Rice.They spearheaded the Western Province and Transvaal attacks respectively and were central figures in the two dominant provinces at the time.They had beef from the time they played in Kerry Packer's World Series when both ranked among the game's quickest bowlers.Their rivalry usually manifested itself in one peppering the other with bouncers the moment they set foot at the crease. The rivalry, however, became a little one-sided once Rice picked up a back injury that prevented him from bowling for several seasons.</img> Rivalry between cricket legends Clive Rice and Garth le Roux spanned over a decade. Image: Sunday Times Rivalry between cricket legends Clive Rice and Garth le Roux spanned over a decade. Image: Sunday Times Just one month separated these two men in age. Kriek turned professional in 1978 and Curren the following year.They faced off only five times in their career, with Kriek winning three. Kriek won the Australian Open twice and Curren reached two grand slam finals, the Australian Open in 1984 and Wimbledon in 1985.Kriek also beat Curren when it came to career titles - 14 to five - and career wins (376 to 339) and losses (222 to 234), but Curren pocketed more cash, winning just more than $3-million to Kriek's $2.38-million.Els has won four major titles compared to Goosen's two, but they've had some great battles. The two played together in the final pairing of the 2004 US Open which Goosen went on to win. They went head to head the following year at the SA Open at Fancourt, where Goosen beat Els by a single stroke.However, these rivals are probably better teammates, having won the 2001 World Cup together as well as the Alfred Dunhill Cup, a team tournament, with David Frost in 1997 and 1998.These two engaged in some battles royale on the road in South Africa and the US, starting with the half-marathon in Durban in 1989, where De Reuck triumphed ahead of Meyer. Second-placed Meyer beat third-placed De Reuck at the 1997 Boston Marathon, but De Reuck reversed that in Chicago the following year. But Meyer reversed that by edging De Reuck by 13 seconds in Chicago in 1999, and beat her again in New York in 2000.</img>Elana Meyer's nemesis was fellow road-runner Colleen de Reuck, a rivalry that was sparked in the late nineties. Image: Supplied Elana Meyer's nemesis was fellow road-runner Colleen de Reuck, a rivalry that was sparked in the late nineties. Image: Supplied In the days of limited international fixtures - even before the sports boycott got real for local rugby fans - the Currie Cup was the premier competition dominated by north and south.They've won more than 50 titles between them since the competition started in the 19th century, and they've contested 11 finals in all. In fact, only seven of 56 finals to date have featured neither Western Province nor the Blue Bulls.But if any old-timers wax too lyrical about this rivalry, point out that the last time these two sides faced off in a final was in 1998.Once the highlight of the soccer calendar, this has slipped down the rankings as a spectacle, although it still draws crowds.This derby proved to be the biggest anti-climax of the year with defensive tactics on both sides. While there were chances on both sides, the negative nature of the derby stultified the festive occasion.Maybe it's a good thing the sides met only once in the 2016/17 season. Last season's edition was packed with draws even though Pirates got the best of Chiefs in one of the league Derbies earlier this year. This derby needs to improve for the betterment of South African football.