There is no respite for his team. England return for three one-day internationals and three Twenty20s, starting on January 15, before a one-off test against Bangladesh in Hyderabad and a four-match series at home against Australia from February 23.For Kohli it is a chance to continue the building of his team around young talents such as Karun Nair, who made a triple century in Chennai, KL Rahul, who scored 199, and off-spinner Jayant Yadav, who in Mumbai scored the first test hundred by an Indian No9.He has two of the world's best spinners in Ravi Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja as well as fast bowlers in Ishant Sharma, Mohammed Shami and Umesh Yadav who outbowled England over the past six weeks. Sri Lankans have a mountain to climb"Whoever comes into the team knows there is a benchmark for fitness," said Kohli, named man of the series for his 655 runs. "Of performance. Of mindset."We want players to be match-ready when they join the team. You shouldn't be spending a year in international cricket just learning what to do. You lose a lot of time in that. And many players can't face that pressure. But if you are prepared, if you're professional, if you know you have to work hard, if you know how to prepare for a game, you have a better chance of performing. Like KL Rahul. Like Karun Nair."You can see their performance. Especially Karun. Replacing a batsman like Ajinkya [Rahane], who has been performing consistently in the last two years in test cricket. To walk in and score a triple hundred couldn't have been a bigger statement."It shows that the next generation will keep getting smarter looking at others, learning how it is done."He's determined to make this the fittest-ever India team and raise the standard of their fielding to match their bowling strength, but knows the ultimate challenge is overseas, although they are not due to travel outside Asia until visiting South Africa at the end of next year."Yeah, it's been a memorable 2016 for the Indian cricket team and that's something I am really proud of."To be part of such a good year and such a good season, especially with the team in transition, is something we can be really proud of," he said.- The Daily Telegraph, London