Fehmz Mocktails is a craft mocktail-making business. We supply specialist retail stores and restaurants with a delicious alternative to a cocktail or alcoholic drink that isn't your usual offering of fresh juices and commercial fizzy drinks.I don't drink alcohol, but always hear these cool names and mixes of cocktails. I knew that I couldn't be the only one intrigued by the idea of these flavours mixing, so a few years ago I devised a series of mocktail recipes and began running classes around the country.</img>Fehmida Jordaan. Image: SuppliedFehmida Jordaan. Image: SuppliedWhen I fell pregnant after trying for a long time, I realised I would need to change my lifestyle, as the classes kept me away from home for too long. This led to the idea of having a ready supply of drinks to sell to retailers.I love playing with flavours. We are a husband and wife team and we tinker with different flavour mixes which we test. We are always pitching new flavours to each other and when we find something we like, we bottle a small batch and offer it to family and friends to get feedback. Once we have a winner, we know we can add it to production.I love staying in Johannesburg in the holiday season because everything quietens down and I can enjoy the peace of the city. The best time to be in Johannesburg is in December; it's beautiful and quiet.For more info visit Fehmzmocktails.co.zaKIWI ENVY"I love this drink because it s so delicious and refreshing," says Jordaan. "It s also so versatile you can freeze it into ice cubes and serve in glasses topped with fizzy lemonade, or you can pour it into an ice-cream popsicle mould and enjoy it on a hot summer s day. If all else fails, pour it into a tub, freeze and serve as a sorbet."Serves: 4Difficulty: EasyTime: 20 minutesIngredients:4 kiwi fruit, peeled500ml (2 cups) ice60ml (1/4 cup) lime cordial60ml (1/4 cup) kiwi mango cordial (the green one by Halls, available from supermarkets)125ml (1/2 cup) of water or more to blendMethod:Blend all the ingredients together and serve immediately.Kiwi, apple, mint & cucumber crushSTRAWBERRY MOCKITOServes: 5Difficulty: EasyTime: 20 minutesIngredients3 limes, cut into slices5ml (1 tsp) icing sugar60ml ( cup) lightly mashed strawberries125ml ( cup) strawberry cordial/punchA handful of torn mint leaves250-500ml (1-2 cups) ice250ml (1 cup) soda water1 litre fizzy lemonadeMethod:1) Combine the sliced lime and icing sugar in a glass and muddle well by mashing it down like you ve had a bad day.2) Place the mashed lime with all its juicy goodness and mint in a jug and add the mashed strawberries and then the cordial. Add 1-2 cups of ice and top up with the soda water and lemonade. Serve chilled.