Common symptoms are delusions of grandeur, an inflated sense of importance, an arrogant sense of entitlement and a complete loss of perspective.It can be the only explanation for the sudden change in behaviour of a growing number of Leicester fans. Shapa Downs, Shapa!The same fans who wildly celebrated promotion to the Premier League in 2014, the same supporters who were thrilled at avoiding relegation the following year, are now incensed by the thought of another relegation battle.The Leicester fan s moaning and whining about things, the ones calling for Claudio Ranieri to be sacked, the ones who have labelled some of their performances a disgrace, need to give themselves a shake.It's time to take their medicine.Leicester are not a big club. That is the harsh truth. The Foxes have spent the majority of their history as a "yo-yo" spinning between the top two divisions.When Martin O'Neill won the League Cup with Leicester twice in the 1990s and secured a handful of top-10 finishes in the top flight, it was remarkable.So for Leicester to win the Premier League last season was miraculous. It was one of the greatest achievements in the history of, not just English football, but the world game. It was something that all of us will remember fondly.The thing is, Leicester are not struggling this season, they are simply performing at their normal level. In fact, given they remain in the Champions League, they are actually doing pretty well, regardless of the 5-0 thrashing by FC Porto in their final group match.Whether you believe Leicester won the Premier League through divine intervention or not does not really matter.The fact is, it was a miracle they did and therefore we are unlikely to see anything like it again. Tenacious TendaiSadly, there are too many Leicester fans who have lost sight of that. Maybe the owners have too. The fans were rightly lauded last season when they created a brilliant atmosphere, roaring their team on to their unexpected triumph.Yet, where there were once cheers, there are now boos. Where there used to be people describing Ranieri as a genius, there are those calling for him to be sacked. They are not the majority, not yet, but their numbers are growing as bigclubitis spreads.It is not implausible that Leicester will need to change their coach.There will possibly be an argument to sack Ranieri if Leicester are still in relegation trouble at the start of March - the loss of their Premier League status would undo so much of the progress the club has made - but if any manager in England deserves to be given the benefit of the doubt, it is him.Leicester allowed every supporter to dream again, but it is time for them to wake up. It is time for their supporters to start living in the real world rather than a fairy tale one.- The Daily Telegraph, London