The friend's sister lit a fire using paraffin. When it burst into flames, she threw away the paraffin bottle which landed on Carly, setting her skin alight.Another friend ran to find Lindle, Carly's mother. By the time Lindle got to the scene, her daughter's body had been severely burnt."I tried to stay calm," said Lindle. "The doctors later explained that because it was not just a flame but a chemical burn, the fire had eaten further into the skin."And so began the painful journey to come to terms with an accident that left the eight-year-old scarred from the neck down.Carly's 14-year-old sister had to step in and care for the family's youngest daughter - who was only three - while Carly spent seven weeks in hospital, undergoing 12 operations. Burn victims can pin hopes on skin bank"And Carly's dad - he was so angry about the accident because she wasn't supposed to even be playing at that house because there is no adult supervision," said Lindle.Carly's chances of survival, and her recovery, were greatly improved by the skin from the skin bank at Tshwane University of Technology.And Lindle described Dr Roux Martinez, who saw Carly through the process at the Red Cross Children's Memorial Hospital, as "not just a doctor, but a mother figure, too".The cadaver skin from the bank was applied to Carly as a temporary covering."The way the doctors explained it, the allograft [using skin from the deceased] promotes Carly's own skin cells to grow quicker," said Lindle.Carly goes to the clinic every second week for a check-up and is due for another allograft in February, although this may not even be necessary."Today she is a normal child, going on her rollerblades and her bicycle. Last week we had a pool party with a jumping castle for her ninth birthday."But she doesn't speak to me about the accident. I don't know why, because she will speak to other people. I think she still feels bad for going to play at the neighbours," said Lindle. HOW THE SKIN BANK WORKS Skin is harvested from donors within 24 hours after death. It is removed from the back, legs and back of arms, unless the family allows for more harvesting. It is then sterilised and preserved in glycerol for up to two years. The paper-thin skin is exactly the same as would be used for skin grafting from a live person. The survivor's burnt skin has to be removed, exposing the underlying tissue to the risk of infection and further inflammation. That's why the allograft (using cadaver skin) is used to cover those areas. It reduces fluid and heat loss, stabilises the physiology and strengthens the patient for grafting with his or her own skin a week later. An allograft is therefore only a temporary rescue cover, which has to be replaced with the patient's own skin. It is a method that saves time and money - and donor skin "knows no colour". No tissue typing is needed, but donors do need to be free of HIV, disseminated cancers and hepatitis. Any age can be considered and tattooed skin can also be used.- This information is based on an interview with Dr Roux Martinez from Red Cross.