Broke legendary US sprinter Michael Johnson's 17-year-old 400m world record while romping to victory in the Rio Olympics final. This was an unparalleled performance. The last time a South African won the 400m crown was Bevil Rudd at the 1920 Antwerp Games in Belgium.Dominated the entire season, and then went out and controlled proceedings at the Rio Games. She also won the Diamond League race in the women's 800m. Pundits have debated whether Semenya was better-suited to the 400m or 1500m as a side event, so she kept them guessing, ending the year ranked 12th in the world in the 400m and 14th in the longer race.Brittain secured his spot in the coxless pairs only earlier this year, having recovered from lymphatic cancer and the devastating treatment for it less than 12 months before. Veteran Keeling, struggling with a long-term injury that turned out to be a detached ligament in his left elbow, rowed through the pain barrier. Legends.The only football team on this list. They may have suffered in Japan during the Fifa Club World Cup but one needs to remember how they got into the tournament in the first place: They won the Confederation of African Football (Caf) Champions League against all odds. They were ejected from the tournament by Congolese club AS Vita, who had to make way for them via disqualification for an improperly registered player.There was also the significant matter of being booted out of the Caf Confederation Cup by the unfancied AC Medeama of Ghana. Sundowns literally hit the bottom of the barrel and prepared for their holiday as league and Telkom Knockout Cup holders before realising the sky was actually the limit. They became the first South African side to win the Champions League in 21 years.If ever there was a glimpse of how life could be without Dale Steyn, "KG" Rabada was a timely reminder that South Africa will never be short of quality fast bowlers. What stands out is not only the pace, but the maturity applied to his bowling. This was apparent in his working over of gun batsman and Australian captain Steve Smith in the innings win in the second test at Hobart.He started the year very well with 18 wickets in two tests against England, including the 13-wicket haul in the fourth test at SuperSport Park but he stepped up a notch in the recently completed tour of Australia. More will be expected from him.</img>Kagiso Rabada is kissed by team captain Faf du Plessis as they celebrate a win in Australia. Rabada is one of SA's top fast bowlers. Image: REUTERS DAVID GRAY Kagiso Rabada is kissed by team captain Faf du Plessis as they celebrate a win in Australia. Rabada is one of SA's top fast bowlers. Image: REUTERS DAVID GRAY Won the Moto3 world championship to become the first South African rider to claim a motorcycling world championship since Kork Ballington in 1979. At 21, Binder is several years younger than Ballington was - a bright future awaits.Not long after Usain Bolt's coach Glen Mills improved his start, Simbine went 9.89 sec to shatter the South African 100m record. Then he made the Olympic final - the first South African sprinter to do that since 1932 - where he ended fifth.The 23-year-old flyer's value to the Blitzboks cannot be understated. Twice this year he missed crucial matches through injury and twice the Blitzboks lost - the Olympic Games semifinal against Great Britain and the final of the Cape Town Sevens against England.It simply underlined the value of his try-scoring ability to the Sevens team. Senatla was named 2016 World Sevens Player of the Year after scoring 66 tries in the World Series. By the end of the year, his career tally was 172 tries in 155 matches.Won two silvers at the Rio Olympic Games in August to become South Africa's most decorated Olympian of all time. His tally now stands at four gongs, featuring one gold and three silver. Still needs one more gold to match former swimmer Penny Heyns and tennis player Charles Winslow.Won South Africa's first Olympic triathlon medal when he took bronze at the Rio Games. Apart from Schoeman himself, few people had given him a chance. Then he went on to win the World Triathlon Series grand final in Mexico. He was an excellent swimmer and solid cyclist who needed to get his run up to scratch, which he did at the right time.</img> Triathlete Henri Schoeman in action. Image: HOW HWEE YOUNG/EPATriathlete Henri Schoeman in action. Image: HOW HWEE YOUNG/EPAOnce Leonid Shvetzov's up-run record is eventually overhauled, everyone will remember the man who obliterated the Russian's record by more than three minutes with a time of 5:18.19 on a brutally warm winter's day.While the race will also be remembered for Caroline Wostmann's epic last kilometre meltdown which allowed Charne Bosman to burgle the race, the 2016 Comrades Marathon will forever be about Gatebe, the Kroonstad Road Killer. He finished 12th at the world 100km championships to help South Africa to the team gold.Was just 1cm short of the Olympic long-jump gold medal, but a lifetime away from his days as a tik addict just a few years before. The 2010 junior world champ missed London 2012 while serving a ban after testing positive for the addictive drug. Had to fight his big battle just to get onto the track.The queen of javelin finally has her Olympic medal. She's had a tough time after finishing fourth at London 2012, but she bounced back from 2014, making the podium at the Commonwealth Games and then the world championships the following year.Won the Om Die Dam to become the first woman to hold that title simultaneously with the Two Oceans and Comrades crowns. Then she successfully defended her Two Oceans title and was leading the Comrades until her legs betrayed her late in the race. Still finished second though.The 38-year-old retained his K1 world championship in Germany, taking his career tally to six to join Spain's Manuel Busto as co-owner of the most world titles. Then he teamed up with Jasper Mocke to take the K2 title. Not bad for a guy who enjoyed his first world success in 2003.Was SA's only double gold medallist in Rio this year. The cerebral palsy sprinter won the 100m and 400m titles at the Paralympics, setting a world record in the shorter dash along the way and a Games record in the longer sprint.</img>Charl du Toit, who competed in the Paralympics in Brazil was SA's only double gold medallist in Rio this year. Image: Wessel Oosthuizen/SASPA Charl du Toit, who competed in the Paralympics in Brazil was SA's only double gold medallist in Rio this year. Image: Wessel Oosthuizen/SASPAWent down from gold at London 2012 to silver in Rio, but it took his cunning and experience to secure second place this time around. He struggled for form in the heats and semifinals, but he delivered when he had to.At some point, 2016 would have been a sorry year for South African batsmen but De Kock made sure he capitalised on what has been a fruitful year for wicketkeeper-batsmen. While he has scaled Jonny Bairstow's heights due to the paucity of tests played by South Africa, he made it count when the chance arose.If he was eviscerating bowling attacks from the top of the order in ODIs, his unadulterated belligerence from number seven, especially in the Australian tour, was the game-breaker when the top orders failed. He, along with Temba Bavuma, are the future of South Africa's batting.Somehow found a way to recover from a life-threatening stab wound after robbers broke into his house last year to finish third in the Dusi Canoe Marathon alongside S'boniso Khwela. While they were always behind the eight-ball, once Lance Kime and Andy Birkett won the first stage, it was a case of willpower being triumphant over adversity. When fully fit, he will be a threat in next year's K1.Finished fourth behind Henri Schoeman at the Rio Olympic Games, but that was a great result considering he shattered his collarbone during a race in April. Had the consolation of winning the world duathlon championships in his first competition after the accident.