The women in the highly acclaimed series painted by Veronique Hoog come across as confident in the portraits - and in person.But the "vanilla chicks", as they call themselves, haven't always felt this way.Mosele Joy Likhoele was 10 when she mixed every detergent she could find in the kitchen and applied the toxic concoction to her skin to try to turn it brown.Luckily a neighbour heard the girl crying and called an ambulance. Her skin peeled off and she was in hospital with life-threatening burns for almost three months. She had to receive counselling before being discharged."I hated school and I didn't want to be alive then. The teachers said bad stuff and I couldn't see the blackboard. The kids threw stones at me and mocked me."I was the last born of four and the only one with albinism. I felt left out because I was different and my mom did not understand," she said of her grim childhood in Welkom and later Kroonstad in the Free State.</img>Mosele Joy Likhoele is comfortable in her own skin now, but it wasn t always like that. Image: MOELETSI MABEMosele Joy Likhoele is comfortable in her own skin now, but it wasn t always like that. Image: MOELETSI MABENow 37, Likhoele is comfortable in her light skin. At the retailer she works for in Johannesburg she lobbies for opportunities for people with albinism.The World Health Organisation and the South African government have recognised the condition as a disability.Short-sightedness and sensitivity to light are linked to the lack of melanin, and albinos are at risk of prejudicial attacks.Among the many myths about albinism is that sex with an affected person will heal disease, and Likhoele once had to defend herself from a man wanting to have sex with her "for luck".Yet the prejudice that hurt her most was when she was rejected by her fianc 's parents for the way she looked.Their attitude spelt the end of the relationship, and she has moved on."Albinism doesn't dictate to me. It is not the colour of my skin or lack of sight but my soul that defines who I am," said Likhoele, who spends her free time designing clothing; in matric she designed and made her own dress from fabric given to her by friends.Hoog said that through her art she wanted to give women like Likhoele a platform to share their experiences of stigma and triumph."I wanted to bring these beautiful women to light," said Hoog, whose painting Pearl Earring II was selected for the second round of judging in London for the BP Portrait Award 2016.Three of her models in the ongoing project - she wants to paint 22 women with albinism for an exhibition - met me for lunch at her home in Joburg.Progress Khuzwayo walked out briskly to meet me, extending a hand with bright nails.The business analyst, who has a postgraduate degree in finance, investment and management and grew up in Clermont, Durban, said there were more than 30 children in her extended family. She has two sisters with albinism and never felt stigmatised or isolated at home."My father was a polygamist with three wives and he had two houses. Two of the kids from his third wife had albinism. My mother was the middle wife and she had two kids, my older brother and me."My mother was extremely supportive and would walk me to school and back. A lot of people with albinism went to a special school but I went to a normal school. I know of children with albinism whose relatives wouldn't let them go to school."My dad was understanding and he would buy sunscreen in trays of 12 bottles just for us."Her father owned a supermarket, butchery and bottle store, and kept cattle on the outskirts of Pietermaritzburg.Khuzwayo said she had felt more privileged than other kids and her parents' attitude to albinism had been an antidote to the behaviour of other people, which could be hostile and bewildering."Some people would call us monkeys or spit on our chest. They would ask 'Why are you so white?' or stare at us.</img>Artist Veronique Hoog says the portrait project is a platform for women with albinism. Image: MOELETSI MABEArtist Veronique Hoog says the portrait project is a platform for women with albinism. Image: MOELETSI MABE"Others believed we were lucky and would want to touch us. Recently I was playing the lottery and a man wanted to touch me and copy the numbers I had chosen."Khuzwayo laughed, saying that if she were that lucky she wouldn't be playing the lottery."And others wanted our body parts because they believed we would bring good luck. Kids got killed in KwaZulu-Natal."Many challenges exist when it comes to people - chocolate people, I mean. These will take time to get rid of, although people are becoming more accepting."Other than her relatives, Khuzwayo had never seen anyone with albinism until she started working."I was never comfortable alone and only started travelling on my own when I was about 16."After growing up in a household in which eggs were bought by the crate and rice for the children came in 90kg bags, Khuzwayo, 43, now lives on her own.Lawyer Molebo Lekwane, 34, grew up in a secure family in Ga-Rankuwa, north of Pretoria.Her mother was a teacher and her father an insurance broker.Lekwane, who has the serenity of a yoga teacher, works at Transnet, having thrown in the towel on litigation two years ago."I was the first born of three sisters and we all have albinism. I was a shock and then my parents had to wise up very quickly with three of us."I felt like I had an average kasi childhood. It had its oddities, but it was very peaceful, relatively speaking."My dad was the tough guy on the street and he looked after us. Only once in a while would a silly kid say something."</img>Lawyer Molebo Lekwane says she has never faced hardcore prejudice. Image: MOELETSI MABE Lawyer Molebo Lekwane says she has never faced hardcore prejudice. Image: MOELETSI MABE When Lekwane was about 12, her mother went away to study further.At first she lived with her aunt and then her father and grandmother, before being enrolled at Settlers Agricultural High School, a boarding school near Bela-Bela where she made close friends."My friend of 20 years told me, only a few years ago, that she had never seen anyone like me before and when she phoned her mother from school she asked about 'this person who was white in a black way' and spoke her language."About 10 years ago Lekwane struck up a relationship with a man she shared an office with while she was doing her articles."I have never really had hardcore stigma, although my sisters have," said Lekwane, who dreams of hosting an Oprah-style talkshow with her sisters and holding a beauty pageant for people with albinism. Facts versus myths Roughly one in 1,000 babies in southern Africa is born with albinism (both parents must carry the gene for it to be passed on); Southern Africa has one of the highest rates of people with albinism; People with albinism do not have special powers, nor do they bring riches or bad luck; Their body parts do not make powerful muthi; People with albinism, in particular children, have been attacked, abducted, wounded and killed in African countries including South Africa, Mozambique, Tanzania, Malawi and Burundi.(Source: Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights)keetonc@sundaytimes.co.za