Whatever it was, Pitso Mosimane was far from his brash, confident self, addressing the international media at yesterday's press conference at the first appearance by a southern African team at the Club World Cup when Mamelodi Sundowns face Kashima Antlers today. He even admitted to some anxiety. Men from Mamelodi have grown in statureMosimane appeared notably self-conscious, though also cleverly cautious with what he gave away. It was so out of character that it seemed a stark reminder that Osaka wasn't Kansas, nor Tembisa, nor was this the PSL, and it was even a step above the Caf Champions League.The coach said he was aware of a rare opportunity to showcase South African football with perhaps the most competitive team from the country sent to an international tournament since the 1990s when Bafana won the Africa Cup of Nations and reached two World Cups."It's important to try to put our country back into the global space and showcase what we have. The most important thing for me is that the boys play the way South Africa knows they can," Mosimane said."The country hasn't really been there with the national team. But SA football comes from a very good, well organised league. The product is very good."I know I'm sounding like an ambassador for SA football, but it's the truth. The quality of SA teams is good enough to have a representative in these kind of tournaments maybe every second year."But all I'm saying is talk until we put it on the pitch. And, hopefully, we won't disappoint on what I have said, and not let our country down."Because then Japan and global football can know what's happening in SA football, and maybe have an interest." I think we want to be more aggressive from the beginning if we want to win," he said yesterday. But Downs still have a good idea how Antlers are laid out He added: "[But] It's not about me, or the club, or about the country, it's about Africa as a continent. That shows how big the responsibility is."The match at Osaka's 40,000-seater Suita City Football Stadium (kickoff: 12.30pm in South Africa) pits Japanese champions Antlers - crowned just last weekend - as determined hosts backed by fanatical support against a Sundowns side who have shown they can deal with hostile environments.As Mosimane said: "If there's any stadium that can be intimidating, then the final of the Champions League in Alexandria against Zamalek is."And Downs have had a look at Antlers, in their 2-1 playoff win against Auckland City to reach the quarters on Thursday. Mosimane was impressed with their characteristic Japanese organisation and work-rate, but also a "never-say-die attitude".Antlers coach Masatada Ishii said he might change his team's approach against a considerably more dangerous attacking team. Tenacious Tendai"I think we want to be more aggressive from the beginning if we want to win," he said yesterday. But Downs still have a good idea how Antlers are laid out.Kashima, whose biggest gripe has been a lack of a camp to prepare, having gone straight from Saturday's league clincher to the City playoff, have dangerous attacking fullbacks in Daigo Nishi and Shuto Yamamoto, who Mosimane has identified as influential.Star striker Mu Kanazaki, who scored the second of two comeback goals against City, has been battling back from injury.Sundowns' list of niggling injuries has been cleverly managed, and everyone is available.Barring stage fright, Downs will give Antlers more than their share of a fight on home ground, and perhaps the world a glimpse of what South African football at its best can be.The winners meet Colombia's Atletico Nacional in Wednesday's semifinal, where a chance at Zidane's Real Madrid in the final will beckon.sports@timesmedia.co.za