Lily Bollinger once said: I drink it when I m happy and when I m sad. Sometimes I drink it when I m alone. When I have company I consider it obligatory. I trifle with it if I m not hungry and drink it when I am. Otherwise, I never touch it unless I m thirsty. If she is to be believed, there s never a bad time for a bottle of bubbly, and with the festive season in full swing it s hard not to agree with her.Not all bubblies are created equal, though. Entry-level sparkling wine is simply white or ros wine infused with carbon dioxide, while the best local versions are produced using the traditional French method where a second fermentation in the bottle gives rise to a fine bead of bubbles and a delicate mousse in the glass when poured.To be called champagne it must be produced in the Champagne region of France, so local sparkling wines produced in this way are known as M thode Cap Classique (MCC). Try these fine bottles of fizz on for size. Bubbly is black diamonds' new blingMade from 100% Chardonnay, this limited release bubbly (only 2,850 bottles) won a gold medal at the 2016 Amorim Cap Classique Challenge. Fresh citrus and apple notes are balanced neatly against brioche notes thanks to barrel-fermentation and just over three years on the lees (spent yeast cells) during secondary fermentation.For those who find traditional MCC too dry, this demi-sec (semisweet) blend of Chardonnay and Pinot Noir is bursting with strawberry and cranberry notes. The lower alcohol makes it well suited to a warm summer s lunch, while it would also pair well with berry pavlova or fruity desserts.This classic 60/40 blend of Chardonnay and Pinot Noir is a wonderful taste of old-style bubbly: bottle-fermented and matured for three years. A full-bodied MCC that dishes up plenty of rich biscuit flavours and minerality on the palate. A top-notch choice for the price. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.