South Africa's long-time top- ranked ref has found an interesting and creative path back to the discipline where he started.He will on the 11th of next month take up a newly created position with World Rugby that requires distinct focus on refereeing as well as coaching and mentoring on the Sevens circuit.World Rugby is placing greater emphasis on the Sevens game after it was welcomed into the Olympic fold earlier this year and part of Joubert's new job will be to knock referees into shape for the 2020 spectacle in Japan."I had a contract with Saru through to the 2019 World Cup, but this opportunity with World Rugby is a really exciting one. It wasn't a decision I took lightly given the obvious lure of possibly refereeing in another World Cup and in next year's British Lions tour to New Zealand."This opportunity with World Rugby probably came along a bit earlier than either myself or my refereeing bosses might have anticipated."Refereeing through to the Rugby World Cup in Japan was very much the plan. However, it has given me the opportunity to walk away on my terms and while I still feel like I'm on top of my game I'm excited about this new chapter."The fact is, Joubert has done and seen it all. You don't get to referee 69 tests without having your head in the clouds one week only to be licked by lava the next.He refereed every significant final for which he was eligible but at those high-flying altitudes proximity to peril is negligible.Joubert has been involved in matches in which his performance overshadowed the result, most notably the 2011 World Cup final as well as last year's World Cup quarterfinal between Scotland and the Wallabies.That was a low point but thankfully for him this year has been cathartic."Doing what I do and understanding people's passion for the game also brings with it forensic scrutiny. I always knew this and accepted it as a natural consequence of being in the arena. Your character is defined not by whether you get knocked down but by how you stand up again."After the World Cup last year I went straight back into the arena in this year's Six Nations, refereeing England against Wales at Twickenham, which was probably the key game in this year's Six Nations. Obviously you are aware of the noise and the doubters of anonymous people on social media but the thrill of being in the arena, of blocking out the external distractions, of committing solely to remaining connected with the players in the moment and contributing to their game. That's what drove me."Keeping your head, walking off knowing that it takes courage and skill to do what we do ... it's what drove me in 2016. I look back on my final season where I refereed key games in the Six Nations, Australia against England in June, the Rugby Championship, Super Rugby play-off series and the Olympic Games and I hope this defines my character."Joubert has been guided by a simple philosophy. "The art of refereeing for me is being connected to the players. To referee a game with relevance and get what matters as opposed to ticking every technical box."I would like to be remembered by the players as having been there for them. Having always had their interest at heart. If that is all I achieve in my career I'd be a happy man."