These are not life-changing books, just wonderful and absorbing reads. Barbarian Days: A Surfing Life by William Finnegan is the ultimate surfing memoir that will have even those who have never sat on the back of the ocean yearning for a "Thruster" board and a swell. The Whites by Richard Price is my top krimi of the year by a writer best described as Dostoyevsky on steroids.What Belongs to You by Garth Greenwell. The narrator, a gay American teacher in Bulgaria, describes with rare honesty his willing descent into the bathrooms beneath the National Palace of Culture in Sofia. There he meets Mitko, a fellow cruiser who becomes the object of his longing and exasperation. Greenwell writes with such lyrical intensity about the burden of shame the teacher carried with him in his early years.Rain and Other Stories by W Somerset Maugham. My wonder at this writer's mastery of his art has never diminished. His stories set in South Asia in the first half of the last century are particularly delightful.In Between the World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes about what it is to be black in America. His is not the strident voice of polemic and protest. Rather, he builds his edifice with such care and thoughtfulness that there is not one superfluous word to be found.The Safest Place You Know by Mark Winkler is an astonishingly original and beautifully rendered look at the damage done by parents and the possibility of redemption that crosses class and race boundaries on a 1980s South African wine farm. City on Fire by Garth Risk Hallberg is a mastodon of a book at 933 pages.It is book-ended by a killing in Central Park over Christmas in 1976 and the great black-out of summer 2007, and set against the beginnings of the punk and alternative art scene in a New York staring into the abyss of bankruptcy. 10 of the best books to read these holidaysCitizen: An American Lyric by Claudia Rankine is a genuinely life-changing book. A meditation on race and racism in urban America today. Searing, devastating, brilliant, rigorous, dense and poetic. Something everyone should read. The Woman Next Door by Yewande Omotoso is a rare sort of novel that is funny, wise, insightful and beautifully observed.The Hair Fair by CA Davids is a delightful new South African children's book about a trip to the hair salon woven through with lessons about beauty and equality.The God Who Made Mistakes by Ekow Duker is set in Alexandra, Johannesburg, and is a remarkably honest story of life in the townships. The author has the ability to bring to life the innermost hopes and fears of the characters.The Story of the Lost Child by Elena Ferrante is the story of a lifelong friendship between young girls, who grow up in a poor neighbourhood of Naples, Italy, and shows us that the patriarchal view of women as no more than objects to be used and abused is a global phenomenon. Second Hand Time: The Last of the Soviets by Svetlana Alexievich is one of the most overwhelming experiences I have had with a book: Alexievich uses ordinary peoples' voices to tell the story of the life and death of the Soviet Union, and she has changed the way I think about literature and history. East West Street: On the Origins of Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity by Philippe Sands is a gripping read despite its title, and a masterful use of memoir and biography to unpick the Holocaust .The Libyan writer Hisham Matar's The Return, about the author's return to the country after Gadaffi's death, purports to be about the disappearance of his political-activist father but is a profound meditation on home and displacement.The poet Maggie Nelson's The Argonauts, about making a family with her transgender partner, is a queer herald for our times: acute, erudite, and iconoclastic. J. K. Rowling confirms two new books are on the wayMongrel by William Dicey is sincere without being sucky, and straight-backed, as the man says. These lyrical essays are pretty fly for a white guy. The Apartment by SL Grey contains creeping horror that is really all about the fear and claustrophobia of being South African. The Mayor of Mogadishu by Andrew Harding. This artistically crafted story of a fascinating Somali politician is an exemplary example of outstanding narrative journalism that provides historical context to the story of Mohamud "Tarzan" Nur. A delicious read, and proof that nonfiction can be as lyrical as any other genre.Known and Strange Things by Teju Cole collates a sizeable portion of his work in this essay collection. His knowledge is breathtaking, and that is apart from his sharp analytical mind. Nomme 20 Delphi Straat by Shirmoney Rhode is the debut of a seriously exciting new talent writing in Kaapse Afrikaans, examining the trauma and nostalgia relating to her childhood in Elsiesrivier.Pleasure by Nthikeng Mohlele is a slow-burning, sensuous novel, full of texture and dread. It, more accurately than any other book in recent years, depicts the stomach-churning despair of losing yourself in your own consciousness. Under Nelson Mandela Boulevard by Sean Christie is probably the most impressive nonfiction debut of the year. Messy and intricate, it complicates the unhelpful dichotomies so many of us hold when describing life in Cape Town.The Orenda by Joseph Boyden is a stunning tale of love and vengeance during the first clashes between Canada's first nations and Western invaders. The story is relentless and devastating. Paul Kalanithi's When Breath Becomes Air is a life-affirming reflection on death by a neurosurgeon during the last months of his life. What makes life worth living is one of the questions Kalanithi asked when he was diagnosed with cancer at the age of 36. This is his answer.Agents of the State by Mike Nicol is a gritty detective-cum-spy novel that cuts scarily close to the bone of South African political corruption. It masterfully combines humour, suspense and catchy prose to confirm Nicol as world-class.Ouma Geelmeid ke kx'u ||xa||xa N|uu (Ouma Geelmeid teaches N|uu) by Sheena Shah and Matthias Brenzinger is an astonishing guide to our most endangered indigenous language, N|uu. There are only three speakers left. This is an inspired attempt to resurrect a dying culture of one of our first nations.Andrew Brown's Good Cop, Bad Cop: Confessions of a Reluctant Policeman gives a glimpse into both our conflicted society and the harrowing life of a cop. Beauty and Sadness by Yasunari Kawabata is perfect - and near impossible to find. Order it, pay ridiculous amounts of money for it, because it will do what great art is supposed to do to/for you: make you feel worthless as an artist, while inspiring you to be better.How Should A Person Be? by Sheila Heti. I met Sheila at this year's Open Book festival. She was hilarious, ironic and earnest at the same time. Her novel is a beautiful mess. And I use "mess" in the most endearing manner. I've read such disparate reactions to it. She mixes autobiography with fiction (still not sure which parts they are but I don't care) with ease. The book is also wonderfully filthy. Just Above My Head by James Baldwin. If you ask me next year to send you my favourite books of the year, this book will be on the list again. Everyone rates Go Tell It On The Mountain as his opus, but for me it's this. Here he plays, here he is frothing at the mouth with rage, here he is ungovernably homoerotic. This is the book that saved my life as a teenager. This is the book that saved my life at 28.Kill Your Friends by John Niven. I have never been more offended, disgusted and thrilled at the same time. Don't read it. But also read it, to know exactly what is wrong with the world when it is run by entitled, coked-up, racist, misogynist, homophobic, murderous men. Urgh. I hated myself for not being able to put this down.Mothers and Sons by Colm T ib n is a collection of beautiful short stories written so exquisitely and "simply" you forget how difficult it is to write. Zakes Mda's Little Suns has everything we love about Mda. It's historical, fantastical, political, sad and hilarious. How does he continue to do it? 