He seemed destined to join thousands of South African children, all victims of circumstances, who would never get the opportunity to live his life to the full.But Mqolo was given a Theo Jackson high school scholarship that changed his life.In 2017, he will be registering for a master's degree in architecture at the University of Johannesburg.The Theo Jackson scholarship was established in 2005 by Theo's sons, Dale and Craig Jackson, to provide disadvantaged boys who are either orphaned or come from single-parent families with an education at Johannesburg's oldest government school, Jeppe High School for Boys.'I tell them I'm the boy with two hearts'But this is no ordinary scholarship. It does not target the brightest or the best. Rather it is for boys with character and resolve, boys with determination to become the best at whatever they set their mind to, be it plumbers, teachers or dads.The scholarship pays for the beneficiaries' education, hostel fees, doctors' visits and whatever else they might need.There are currently 51 scholarship boys at Jeppe and in total 120 boys have benefited over the past 11 years. It is the biggest single school scholarship in the country.Mqolo, 22, who became a scholarship beneficiary in Grade 9, said he was given a high-quality education that encouraged him to be "eager" about life. His brother was too old to qualify for the scholarship."The lesson was that I am not shaped by my circumstances, but what I set my mind to. You become what you think. Respect is number one at Jeppe; we were encouraged to add value to the people around us and our community, to be good citizens and be the best in whatever we do, to have courage and be kind. It instilled this in me and I will never grow out of it. Had I not gone to Jeppe, would I have followed the same path? Certainly not."Dale Jackson, himself a Jeppe old boy and current deputy headmaster, gave up his professional career as a chartered accountant in 2009.He thought he would spend three months volunteering on the scholarship project, but the stint turned into two years and he was approached by the board to join the school full time. At the moment we have too many sponsors and not enough boys. It's a brilliant problem to have After completing a teaching qualification in 2011, he was made deputy head."When my dad died I promised myself that I wouldn't be the richest 48-year-old in the graveyard. I want to spend my life working on things I am passionate about and be around people with integrity," he said."Our father was an orphan. It was sheer luck that he got a gap - someone came along and paid for him to get an education at Jeppe."He was 48 when he died."His father had left a small inheritance. "It was enough to put one guy through school," said Jackson."It could have bought a small car or been a down payment on a house, but no one would remember that.Disabled millionaire penniless no more"He was average at everything but he always gave it his all and he was the best father in the world, so that became the criteria - a boy with character and the right attitude."Success for us is someone who becomes a good parent and contributes to society. We wanted a kid who would fall through the cracks if he didn't get a chance."Money for the fund is raised through fundraising events, endowments and sponsorship from organisations including Investec, Bidvest, Impala Platinum and Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation, as well as individuals.Fundraising was the easy part, said Jackson. "At the moment we have too many sponsors and not enough boys. It's a brilliant problem to have."Thando Mjiyako, 14, is another scholarship pupil. He has just completed his first year at Jeppe and goes to Grade 9 next year."I love being at Jeppe. I have discovered my hidden talents - I am good at hockey and soccer and I have a talent for public speaking. My aim is to get a good matric, study for an LLB and become an attorney."I think of where I am this year and can't believe it."