If Ntando Mahlangu's desire for success matches his appetite for food, he will touch the stars.Just 14, the double-amputee rocketed to fame when taking the 200m silver medal at the Rio Paralympics, sandwiched between two Britons, one who was 40 and the other in his early 30s.Mahlangu, who has been on prosthetics for just four years since his amputation, is a phenom on the track.But away from it he's just your regular teenager with a witty tongue.I hooked up with Mahlangu while he was shopping for Christmas presents, accompanied by Mike Stevens, operations manager of the Jumping Kids charity and one of three trustees overseeing the R360,000 Mahlangu pocketed in bonuses and awards from government and the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc). Teenage Paralympic silver medalist Ntando Mahlangu sees himself as 'just another kid' After walking through several shops, they were hungry."What do you want to eat?" Stevens asked Mahlangu. "Burger, pizza?""Food!" retorted Mahlangu, who starts high school at Affies - Afrikaanse Ho r Seunskool - in Pretoria next year.We settled on the outside section of RocoMamas in Rosebank, where Mahlangu eyed the full portion of ribs."You won't finish that," Stevens said."I will," insisted Mahlangu. "Let's bet!"The waitress arrived and was quickly asked how large the meal was. "It's big," she replied, demonstrating they were slightly longer than her forearm.Mahlangu studied her, then shook his head: "No, bring," he instructed.When his meal arrived, the kid took off his cap, carefully placed it next to himself and turned to his platter: "Let's do it."He dismembered three basted ribs and lifted the chunk to his mouth.Then disaster; somehow he dropped the ribs, which fell to the ground with a sloppy thud, but not before bouncing off his shorts. He stared down disbelievingly. "I was about to put that thing in my mouth.""Let it go," suggested Stevens, pointing out there were still plenty of ribs on his plate."That's not the problem," said Mahlangu. "The problem is my pants - now it looks like I peed on myself ... My mom is going to kill me."There was another surprise for Mahlangu by the time he had finished the ribs. When he looked down, the fallen piece had disappeared, and he surmised that the birds must have taken it."Did you know that birds eat cows?" I teased him."It was pork," he corrected me.Mahlangu doesn't lack when it comes to self-confidence, and that's exactly what Stevens wants.Stevens, who started as a mentor at the Jumping Kids charity in 2011, is a double-amputee himself.He was 12 in 1992 when he was land-sailing at his family's holiday home on the Vaal Dam and the mast touched a newly installed power cable."I shut down the Vaal and Vereeniging for half-an-hour."The power came up again when the severely burnt Stevens arrived at hospital in Vereeniging, but they were unable to treat him and he was sent to Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto, where he stayed for several months "just having skin put back on"."I don't remember the first four days. My dad returned from the Barcelona Olympics on the fifth day."By the time Geoffrey Stevens, a sailor at the 1992 Games, arrived, the amputation had been done, one above the knee and one below.</img> Image: WESSEL OOSTHUIZEN/SASPA Image: WESSEL OOSTHUIZEN/SASPAStevens carries a positive attitude, which he tries to instil into the children he works with."If I don't get over my disability, nobody's getting over it," he said.He was seldom ripped off at school, but when he was, his response was swift. "Could you do it? Can you handle what I handle?" he would ask his taunter.Stevens, who has just won R400,000 for coming joint third in the SAB social innovation awards, dreams of making prosthetics cheaper and fitting as many amputees as possible, even internationally."We have about 70 kids on our books. We fit and maintain for at least two years."It is critical that the sockets, into which the stumps fit, are comfortable. "If they're not, they won't use the prosthetics."Then there are the social problems some amputee children face, like a 12-year-old in Yeoville who was forced by a gang to beg for money on the streets in a wheelchair."We moved him into a hostel at school so at least that didn't interfere with his school work during the week. But they were still doing it on weekends."So Stevens used his connections, going to another amputee who had contacts in the police; they went in and warned the gang.Stevens, who chucked up a corporate job to follow his passion, says Jumping Kids can make sockets in 90 minutes, quicker than the norm of one week.And they also do it in volume. "We fit more kids than state hospitals."Most equipment comes from overseas, and he's working out ways of making it more affordable; an average below-knee prosthetic will cost around R50,000, but it can go up to more than R100,000. Wayde van Niekerk biggest winner at SA Sports Awards Mahlangu is now the face of Jumping Kids, which relies heavily on corporate funding.Mahlangu, from KwaMhlanga in Mpumalanga, was just another kid when he first underwent the amputation and then was fitted with prosthetics.The biggest difference that made to his life was being able to make his grandmother a cup of coffee - a simple act that was not possible for a boy who at the time moved around only in a wheelchair or by shuffling on his hands and half-formed legs.There are many things that able-bodied people take for granted.Walking into a shoe shop where Mahlangu hoped to find some gifts, Stevens quickly explained to him the importance of checking for the right sizes."You never know," said Stevens. "Don't get me wrong, he knows about sneakers. He uses shoes on his track blades because they have studs which are slippery on concrete. He ties the shoes on."Mahlangu is comfortable with his growing fame.In one store he was stopped by two kids asking to pose with them for photos, and he happily obliged."It's happening more and more," commented Stevens.Driving to one shop, Stevens quipped to Mahlangu: "We're off to spend your hard-earned cash."The teenager seemed surprised by the term hard-earned."It wasn't just 24 seconds," Stevens, said, referring to his medal time of 23.77sec. "It was four years.""I never thought of it like that," replied Mahlangu, nodding his head slowly.With more years of hard training to come, he's surely set to run into a golden sunrise.sports@timesmedia.co.za