The largest contributors to GDP growth was mining and quarrying general government services and finance growing by 5 1% 1 8% and 1 2% and contributing 0 4 percentage point 0 3 percentage point and 0 2 percentage point to growth respectively. Marginal growth was also noted in the personal services construction and transport.In contrast the manufacturing industry electricity (including water and gas) and the trade industry all contracted significantly compared to the previous quarter. The manufacturing industry contracted by 3 2% compared to 8 1% expansion the previous quarter.Study this to ensure your job is relevant in 5 years timeThe electricity shrank further by 2 9% compared to a 1 8% decline in the second quarter while the trade industry recorded its first contraction for the first time since the second quarter of 2015 declining by 2 1%.Due to the impact of drought the agriculture industry posted its seventh consecutive quarter of economic decline since the first quarter of 2015. The sector s quarterly contribution to the GDP declined by more than 14 percentage points from R77.8 million in the first quarter of 2015 to R66.8 million in the third quarter of 2016. The 0 3% decline in the third quarter of 2016 for the sector was mainly a result of a decrease in the production of horticulture products. The country s slow growth in the third quarter amongst other things can be associated with the decline in the agricultural sector. It is the impact of drought on the agricultural sector that is slowing the entire economy given the sector s robust backward and forward linkages with other sectors. Apart from having had an adverse effect on the production output of major crops and livestock in the country the impact of drought has also had adverse effects on the financial position of the farmers and on all other organizations that are linked and do business with farmers such as financial institutions and/or insurance companies inputs and machinery suppliers government and consumers at large. Agricultural exports have significantly declined while food inflation keeps on jumping over the maximum target level and food prices are continuous going up. Consequently this leads to sluggish economic growth and increased pressure on the fiscus. Unemployment:Due to the slow economic growth South Africa is consistently struggling to create the much-needed employment by thousands of capable and willing job seekers in the country both in the formal and informal sectors. As a result South Africa has one of the highest unemployment rates in the world especially amongst young people currently standing around 27%. Given the rate at which South Africa s economy is growing it is not surprising that it is sitting with this staggeringly high unemployment rate. If South Africa is to bring down unemployment typically it must achieve a yearly growth rate of at least 2%. A 0.2% growth is not nearly enough to create jobs instead it will simple result in significant further job loses like what is currently happening.Domestic Food Prices:Many people are wondering what how high or low will food prices be in 2017. The direction of food prices will greatly dependent on how much rain the country is going to get for the rest of the season. In recent weeks South Africa has received quite substantial amount of rain and according to the weather service there is more expected. If more rains fall more ground will get planted and yield will be significantly higher compared to the previous production season. Currently the country still has enough food supply however if the drought spell continues food exports will continue on the down spiral imports and food inflation will rise and consequently food prices increase further. Unfortunately if Trump triumphs at convincing congress to adopt his trade proposals the impact of that decision might lead to seriously consequences for South Africa in the form of AGOA trade agreement which must go under a strict review on annual basis checking compliance with its eligibility requirements. However if the weather conditions become favourable as predicted by the weather service there will be significant improvement in production in the current season going into 2017. Subsequent to the improvement in production consumer price inflation which was standing at 6 6% in November 2016 (significantly higher than central banks target of 3% to 6%) should start moderating in the second or third quarter of 2017. This will greatly benefit consumer as it will lead to a downward movement in food prices.Trade:While lower food prices will certainly bring some relief to the consumers in the next coming year the economy remains extremely vulnerable to global shocks like oil prices and possible policy changes in the US prompted by the incoming Trump administration. Although unclear at this stage what policy direction will the new administration take sentiments from different direction suggest that the Trump administration is likely to push policies that will might not be favourable to emerging market economies like South Africa. New Year set to start with pricier petrolThis particular sentiment comes as result of Donald Trump s trade proposal during his entire election campaign where on the foreign policy front he has suggested a more protectionist footing.Unfortunately if Trump triumphs at convincing congress to adopt his trade proposals the impact of that decision might lead to seriously consequences for South Africa in the form of AGOA trade agreement which must go under a strict review on annual basis checking compliance with its eligibility requirements. Following the annual review the US President has the authority to withdraw suspend or limit duty-free treatment for certain items (on 60 days notice) on any country following non-compliance. Although the AGOA trade agreement is set to be in place at least until 2025 it is uncertain at this stage what will happen next year when the new US President facilitates the reviewing process.AGOA plays an important role in the economic development of the South African economy. Moreover AGOA has been responsible for facilitating the establishment and promotion of thousands of jobs by several industries (of which agriculture especially the fruit industry is part of) that befit from trading on preferential basis with the US. It is therefore concerning that there is uncertainty relating to the trade policy environment emanating from the change of government in the US. The agricultural sector is key to the long-term development of the South African economy. Therefore preferential access to markets such as the United States crucial stimulation of the deteriorating South African economy. Hamlet Hlomendlini: Agri SA s senior economist