Last year, by happenstance, we were in Paris on Friday November 13, the night the lights of Paris dimmed as terror struck the heart of the city of love.As shared in my blog post of the time, it was a time that touched us with such poignancy; through the tragedy, unity emerged. "Je suis parisienne" were words uttered by all, across the city and across the world, as we came together to firmly and clearly express our unwillingness to be scared away.Having shared in this impactful experience, it was more important than ever to us that we return to the City of Light one year on. We went back a few weeks ago, not only to enjoy its beauty but also to celebrate its revival. It's a squeeze, but Paris Impressionist museum is still a hit after 30 yearsIt has been well documented that tourism to Paris, and to France as a whole, has taken a significant hit since the events. I have found this surprising; saddening, in fact.As I looked out from my hotel room towards the Eiffel Tower, it glittered jewel-like in the stillness of the chill-filled evening, and once again I was struck by the city's beauty. Every morning, with the smell of fresh-baked baguettes wafting through the air, I go to a local caf for a coffee, and then take a stroll along the Seine.The spectacular city provides the grandest running commentary: the bridges, the spires of Notre Dame, the twinkling holiday lights, the balcony baskets of flowers, the delicate window frames and doorways, the accents of passing Parisians. Paris is a genuine canvas on which the natural richness of culture, art and life are painted.This time, walking these streets of quiet, elegant, innate human artistry, I immediately felt that, despite the tragedy, the city is definitely moving on. People are wandering the boulevards, gathering in bistros and getting on with life. This is their city and they will never allow its light to turn to darkness. For me, it was like seeing the city for the first time again - and it was just as magical.I even felt that the food tasted better than ever - the flaky croissants and the succulent chicken served at my favourite bistro, L'Ami Louis. In a way, it was as though, on my return to the city of love that I so adore, my senses were so heightened that my appreciation was greater than ever before.Justifiably, as we have seen throughout the world these days, security measures are evident. This is a new reality of life. But the mood in France is neither tense nor gloomy. Rather, it is, as with all matters Parisian, part of the city's tapestry. Culturally, Paris remains the epicentre of the world. My trip to see the Picasso-Giacometti exhibition at the Mus e Picasso was, in a word, awe-inspiring. I even felt that the food tasted better than ever - the flaky croissants and the succulent chicken Yet, for all that I so appreciated during this trip, it was the people, the Parisians, that fuelled my love of the city the most. It is incredible how quickly the Parisians have bounced back. For me, this is a sign of the inner strength and resilience of French people. They are busy getting on with their lives, not afraid to indulge in the joie de vivre that only they have mastered so well.Life is continuing, albeit with fewer tourists, which has had tragic effects on their economy. While I myself have never experienced the rudeness of French people towards tourists that some claim, I did find the people I met were actually even more engaged and appreciative towards those of us who are still willing to fight the fear and discover their beautiful country.The best way to show our recognition of and support for those whose lives were lost, and the families affected through injury and the like, is not to change the way we live but to continue with the things we adore and cherish. If we do not, in effect, those who chose to try to terrorise are in fact prevailing. Accidental Tourist: The night it rained lions & leopards For all these reasons, and countless more, I wholeheartedly feel that now is the time to return to Paris. I am glad to be able to convey to you that "la vie" undoubtedly continues; the heart of Paris beats strong and proud. Paris has lost none of its lustre. It is as beautiful and resolute as it has always been. It remains the most absorbing metropolis on Earth.This truism was vividly brought to life for me when, during a walk, I stopped at the bronze sculpture of Charles de Gaulle, and the words of one of the inscriptions from the general's war memoirs struck me for their timelessness (translated from French): "There is a time-honoured pact between the grandeur of France and the liberty of the world."Now is the time to visit Paris. We must all play our part in rebuilding confidence in France as one of the world's favourite destinations. I sincerely hope you will join me in visiting and supporting this city of life, light, love and liberty. Tollman is the CEO of Trafalgar and Chairman of The Travel Corporation in South Africa Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za