Understandably so, because there isn't a big tournament to whet appetites, but there were those who raised their hands ahead of next year's three-match T20 series against Sri Lanka. There was also the significant matter of the Titans successfully defending their title on Friday.Jon-Jon Smuts (Warriors)371 runs at 41.22. Strike rate: 144.35His significant seasonal contribution from the top of the order was missing in Friday's final, which partly explained why the Warriors were bridesmaids yet again. Game of ThronesWhile he went missing in his team's hour of need, what cannot be hidden is the fact they rode on the back of his broad bat to get to their first final in five seasons.Only two hundreds were scored in the tournament and one belonged to him, the unbeaten 107 he made in a tall but successful chase against the Dolphins.Smuts may still have some way to go for international reckoning, but he is finally realising his significant potential by being the tournament's top-runs scorer.Farhaan Behardien (Titans)352 runs at 117.33. Strike rate: 188.23While David Miller scored the other century in the tournament, Behardien always had the match-defining innings to outwit his fellow finisher.It is the kind of headache selection convenor Linda Zondi would like to have, especially with Miller and Behardien doing well. But when called up, "Fudge" delivered.It was the brutally sparkling 15-ball 50 in the last round-robin match against the Warriors that effectively won the Titans the tournament. It also came at No3, showcasing a versatility that hasn't always been prevalent in Behardien.Colin Ingram (Warriors)286 runs at 31.77, Strike rate: 130.59Ingram is one of four batsmen in the top 10 with three 50s, but it was the timing of the knocks that counted the most. The most important of the lot was in the semifinal when he quickly got to grips with the slow St George's Park wicket in what would have been a difficult chase if he hadn't knuckled down. What a gal! Shania is simply sensationalWith the strength in depth of South Africa's batting, there's always a feeling he'll miss the selection train, but his measured aggression played a role in getting the Warriors to the final.GC Viljoen (Highveld Lions)19 wickets at 16.63. Economy rate: 7.64It's a pity he'll be taking his blood and thunder to England to fulfil a Kolpak county deal as Viljoen was a consistent menace on unusually slow early season surfaces. If the Lions were not hit and miss, they could have done more, but have a raft of players unavailable due to injury or international duty.For a fast bowler, he shouldered a heavy workload and bowled 41.2 overs in the tournament. Pity his efforts went unrewarded.Andrew Birch (Warriors)7 wickets at 12.23. Economy rate: 7.05The fact the Warriors were a difficult side to get away was down to Birch's effectiveness as an opening bowler. He is the owner of the season's only five-wicket haul and the game needs more hard-working characters like him.He had superb back-up in Sisanda Magala (13 at 24.15) and Basheeru-Deen Walters (11 at 22.27), which gave the Warriors a mean-bowling edge. They did their best in the final, but their batsmen failed them.