Look (OK, don't look) at my unwashed hair, mismatched pyjamas and scary makeup-free face.It is the costume of my current situation.Digest this.I have been admitted to hospital, indefinitely, at 24 weeks pregnant for treatment for gestational diabetes, hypertension, low amniotic fluid and intrauterine growth restriction. The road to love is paved with loo paperThis is after five failed IUIs (intrauterine insemination, a form of assisted conception), three surgeries and one unsuccessful IVF (in vitro fertilisation) transfer.They say I should rest before the baby arrives, but there is nothing restful about treatment in hospital to save your unborn child. It is perhaps the scariest leg of our seven-year journey.You must look the part. And it ain't pretty.Friends visit when they can, my exhausted husband brings treats every evening - activity baskets of adult colouring books and Bollywood DVDs.But the world is still turning and I am stuck.The nurses are convinced I am plotting to escape. I may have given them reason on day four when I asked if the windows opened and requested two extra sheets.By day six, I started looking forward to having my blood pressure tested every few hours, bruises from the death-grip machine included, just for the social interaction.Still, I long for drama.Even a man brought in for surgery after a spider bit him on the buttocks didn't cut it.Then I heard the nurses mention something that made my ears sing. A salon at the hospital! Cancer: Miracles and medicineWhy it is there I do not know and I'm not asking.My doctor's instruction was that I would have to be taken to the salon, situated in a plastic surgeon's rooms, in a wheelchair. I considered it chauffeuring.For the first time in days I put on the good underwear and made my way, in pyjamas, sporting hospital identity bands, to the sanctuary.The beauty therapist worked miracles on my overgrown eyebrows.Despite being in a plastic surgeon's practice, we joked that there was nothing she could do about my enlarged pregnancy nose.I sat back in a sea of cushions and had my toenails buffed and painted a flattering nude.But it was the hairstylist who stole my heart. A quick blow wave and flat iron is not life-saving surgery, but it does wonders for the soul.A day later the walls started closing in on me again. The diabetic meals and homesickness were enough to bring on tears. May you never have to eat a diabetic burger when you haven't seen your own home for weeks.But a sharp little kick tells me it will be worth it in the end. And meanwhile, there is the salon.E-mail the author of this article, Paige Nick, at amillionmilesfromnormal@gmail.com or find her on Twitter: @paigen