This has been a year consumed by politics - and it has taken a heavy toll on the psyche of the nation.There was nothing in the economy to uplift the mood of millions of young people looking for jobs. We continue to yearn for the major reforms of our public education system that will improve the life chances of our young people and enable them to participate meaningfully in the economy. Far too many people remain trapped in structural poverty on the margins of the economy, and their spatial reality condemns them and their children to the outskirts of society. Could a united opposition win the 2019 elections?None of this is for a want of resources or policies. We lack the right kind of education, value system and institutional framework that could deliver deep change.As a nation we are unable to grapple with the challenges confronting us because of weak political leadership and ethical foundations in governance, and shaky institutions.Our major socioeconomic problems grow worse while we battle with corruption and an unaccountable political elite.Because the catalysing force of leadership is absent, we are unable to tap into the collective talent and potential that we possess. Idealism and optimism will never be enough to give the countless number of excellent community initiatives the critical mass they require to elevate the entire country.Every year that our politics fails to progress is a missed opportunity to pursue grand visions and animate the latent greatness of our country.The year we are bidding farewell to was, as Charles Dickens wrote, "the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light , it was the season of Darkness".Clearly, of foolishness, our political leaders are not deprived. Equally clear is that they possess no wisdom. But, even though our politics may be suffused with darkness, there is a flicker of hope that - with courageous action and the drive to find better alternatives - the tide could turn for the better.The major source of our political and economic challenges can be summed up as a breakdown of leadership, ethics, and institutions.Those with the responsibility to lead have so far failed in their duty. They are not acting in ways that advance the collective upliftment of the nation. Instead they are more concerned about their own welfare and safeguarding the interests of favoured factions and cronies. In 2017, we must stoke the remaining fires of optimism, roll up our sleeves and push for the kind of political change that could give the country a fighting chance to realise its potential The new standard of fidelity to requirements of accountability for this political class is no longer honesty, but the peddling of lies. Feigning ignorance and abdicating responsibility is the hallmark of President Jacob Zuma's leadership - and his cabinet ministers and the heads of other public institutions have quickly learnt to keep in step.The public protector's State of Capture report - which mapped the relationship between Zuma, the Gupta family, and public contracts in state-owned enterprises - lays bare our politics in 2016.A hedge of lies was planted by the highest office in the land to shield the president from scrutiny. When Thuli Madonsela was finalising her report, Zuma lamented that he had not been given an opportunity to respond - only for that lie to be exposed by an audio recording that proved he had spent a significant amount of time frustrating the work of the public protector to avoid being held accountable.This is the clearest example of the extent to which integrity, a foundational virtue of governance in the highest office in the land, has been eroded. The implications of the report will continue to unfold in the year ahead.This past year also highlighted the fractured state and weaknesses of our law enforcement authorities. Their effectiveness has been blunted to a level favouring organised criminals colluding with political elites - or acting on their own. There are factional tensions within the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, and between the leadership of the Hawks and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate under Robert McBride. These conflicts further erode the integrity of these institutions, undermine the fight against crime, and pose security risks. How to save SA from the battle of factions This is not a spontaneous chaos. It is part of broader institutional decay wrought by political infighting in the ruling party, and failures of leadership in the state.In the absence of responsible leadership and a sound ethical framework, our institutions have been deprived of deep foundations that would nurture their character and lend them vitality in executing their responsibilities. Weakening these institutions is a deliberate and logical expression of the frightening politics of factionalism and patronage. And the year ahead will be no different unless there is change in how society engages with our politics.The January 8 statement, commemorating the establishment of the ANC 105 years ago, will be a platitudinous appeal to party unity. It will lay blame on forces outside of the ruling party that seek to destabilise government, and deflect attention away from the political leadership as the real source of crisis in governance.The state of the nation address in February will also be a non-event, until Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan delivers his budget speech offering a more sober and credible assessment of the position we are in. The political honeymoon at the beginning of the year will not last long, and the ANC will be thrown back into the maelstrom of factional battles, with the final showdown culminating with its elective conference late in 2017.Meanwhile, vital institutions of state will stumble on in a state of virtual paralysis.To halt the slide requires that we look for solutions beyond the ANC. The party's leadership in the past has proved incapable of reining in Zuma. Whenever the party's national executive committee meets to talk about Zuma's dubious leadership, he somehow emerges stronger. The effect of these meetings on Zuma is analogous to the biblical miracles in which people on their deathbeds suddenly take up their beds and dance. The belief that the party has the capacity to heal itself is simply false. More likely is that the party will split even further as the differences between various factions deepen.We cannot lay the blame entirely at the door of Zuma, although he is a major part of the problem. The malignant mutation of the party is manifest in its Byzantine decision-making processes on policy and leadership; the arrogant attitude of its cadres in government structures and those feeding in the trough of patronage; and in its wrong-headed priorities.To properly cleanse itself, the party will have to lose an election, so that it can reflect honestly on its problems without being blinded by state power and patronage. The ANC's defeat in 2024 is likely if Nkosazana succeeds Zuma However, no matter what the ANC goes through in 2017, South Africans will need to continue the search for a better agency for change.Change in the country is possible, but it will take work. Just as the attainment of democracy was a product of principled and unflagging struggles, the renewal of democracy requires imagination, grit, and purposeful action. Leaving the battle to political parties and prominent individuals will not do. No society attains change by waiting for a blueprint from political demagogues or for a political party to resolve its internal spats. Progress is earned through heightened political consciousness, consistent agitation, and the mobilisation of politicians and civil society.In 2017, we must stoke the remaining fires of optimism, roll up our sleeves and push for the kind of political change that could give the country a fighting chance to realise its potential.We must open a space for fruitful conversations about what it will take for South Africa to be great but, most of all, we must reject the present political elite - its priority is to destroy value in the country for personal and factional interests. Qobo is with the National Research Foundation Chair on African Diplomacy and Foreign Policy at the University of Johannesburg