That restless energy doesn't always sit well with others, but it has allowed Conrad to view things from unique vantage points.It will be particularly helpful in his new job as coach of the South African A side when his view has to be uninterrupted.Three years with the national academy has given him a front-row seat to the country's emerging talent, while stints with the Cobras and the Lions have given him insights into pushing players' personal boundaries.Conrad says there will be a focused approach. It will require him to be a troubleshooter, perhaps the local game's ultimate fixer.Assuming the role at a time the Proteas are in full bloom doesn't mean his job will be a bed of roses. Hash-tag whither the Amla magic?As ever, there are thorny issues."We just have to make sure that our golden summer isn't a one- or two- year thing," he said."We have to make sure our plans are sustainable and that there is a succession plan."There are a couple of guys more or less of similar age."We might not be fortunate where Faf [du Plessis] goes one year and AB [de Villiers] two years later and then Hashim [Amla] goes after that."We have to prepare for mass retirement."There are a lot of young guys that have come through the national academy but obviously I can't mention names."He also says that he has to make sure that black players get opportunities. "Not just the opportunities, but also get the necessary skills."That is why a personal-player plan is critical for all players, particularly the black African players."That doesn't mean standards are compromised. While [in the A-team] winning isn't the primary focus, by using best practice in different disciplines, winning will come. Young Jennings a match for anyone"You want to win every game, but for us the focus is figuring out how we are going to win."Part of that however is inculcating a culture that doesn't come naturally to South Africans.Conrad believes South Africa's approach to the game can be more front-foot orientated."We have to look at the brand of cricket we want to play at franchise level, especially the one-day game. At international level the Proteas are red-hot."We always err on the side of 'what if it goes wrong?' We pride ourselves in fighting back. But in the national team, we've seen the team try to dominate from the start."I'm not advocating a slap-dash attitude, but I would like to see us be more aggressive with bat and ball. If the opposition is playing well, then you have to take a step back."Backing yourself is one thing, but you still need a good skill set to play with confidence."It is the kind of confidence he would like to see on his side's tour of England next year, before engaging India A and Australia A in a triangular series on home soil.