We thought he had come of age after smashing the South African 100m backstroke record when he clocked 53.12sec at the South African championships. But he was unable to push that lower at the Olympic Games, where he reached the semifinals. He has potential to go much faster. Also watch Zane Waddell, Reid's teammate at Alabama. With rivals like these...Some top rivalries in SA sport, then and nowSilver medallist at this year's under-23 world championships, she will push hard for a spot in the lightweight women's double sculls boat that finished fifth at the Rio Olympics. Young, hungry and dedicated, Van Wyk has the potential to go all the way. Also watch heavyweight rower Garth Holden.She's already 25, but she returned strongly last year after missing the previous two seasons because of injuries. Conley achieved a level of consistency and if she can build on that going forward, she could become the country's premier female sprinter in the near future.Also watch Gift Leotlela.The explosive all rounder has already made quite an impact in his debut season with the big boys. The 18-year-old scored a duck in his first Sunfoil Series match for the Highveld Lions against the Cape Cobras but atoned with the ball, taking seven wickets in the match. Mulder already has a first-class ton and averages a meagre 16 with the ball.South Africa's only Commonwealth Games boxing medallist at the 2014 showpiece in Glasgow, Scotland, Mbenge has now won all eight of his professional bouts inside the distance. His most recent victim, Eric Mukadi of the Democratic Republic of Congo, was unbeaten in 18 bouts. Expect the welterweight to make his mark this year.Also watch Branden Thysse, son of former SA super-middleweight champ Andre.</img>Boxing medallist Tulani Mbenge's star is on the rise. Image: Roger Sedres/Gallo Images/Getty Images Boxing medallist Tulani Mbenge's star is on the rise. Image: Roger Sedres/Gallo Images/Getty Images The Knights captain earned a national team call-up through a mountain of runs and will be expected to maintain his form throughout the year. His success at franchise level is followed by the likes of Aiden Markram, Wiaan Mulder and Jason Smith, who have performed for their franchises. While the Proteas' test middle-order may look settled and cast in stone, there's nothing wrong in having excellent strength in depth. Also watch Sarel Erwee, Omphile Ramela, Lungi Ngidi and Lwandiswa Zuma.There are doubts about his defence but this is outweighed by his quality as an attacking rugby player. If SA Rugby somehow finds a way to mess up this precocious talent, it will be a sign the local game will never emerge from its chrysalis of caution. There were glimpses of his exceptional talent last year and, at some point, it needs to be harnessed into something better for him to get right up there. If New Zealand rugby is able to thrive with players who care only about attackand phase them into their game plans, then it has to be asked: why can't South African rugby do the same? Then again, South African rugby has to be dragged kicking and screaming into the future. Also watch Innocent Radebe, Marvin Orie and Jeremy Ward.</img> Rubgy enthusiasts, keep a close eye on former Grey High School pupil Curwin Bosch who now plays professionally for the Sharks. Image: GALLO IMAGESRubgy enthusiasts, keep a close eye on former Grey High School pupil Curwin Bosch who now plays professionally for the Sharks. Image: GALLO IMAGESUntil such time Stuart Baxter explains why he's using a talented winger at leftback, South African football is being robbed of a special player. Then again, the leftback cupboard is not necessarily full with Thabo Matlaba, Sibusiso Khumalo or Tebogo Langerman. Modiba, 21, showed us what he's capable of at the Rio Olympics in August and he must build on the potential he showed this year. Also watch Judas Moseamedi, Thabiso Kutumela and Brandon Theron.The Durban-born prop joined the Lions' Under-19 ranks in 2013. He partnered Malcolm Marx in the front row at KES and their careers have blossomed in tandem at the Lions. The 22-year-old would have benefited hugely from the Lions' march to the Super Rugby final in which he also featured. He has already blipped on the Bok radar as a player required to be on standby.</img>Lions prop Dylan Smith has already caught the attention of the Springbok management. Image: Gallo Images Lions prop Dylan Smith has already caught the attention of the Springbok management. Image: Gallo ImagesThe successful former South African under-19 has started his career with a bang at the Titans. The 21-year-old had a modest Twenty20 campaign but it is his ability to stay the course in first-class cricket that has seen him rise in the estimation of many. Scores of 162, 139 and 53 helped the Titans move to the top of the Sunfoil Series earlier this season. Markram already averages about 45 in a burgeoning first-class career. The bold, the bizarre and beautiful soccer memories of 2016Like Jacques Kallis, the former SA under-19 allrounder attended Wynberg Boys High and is cutting his teeth at first-class level at the Cobras. He is a clean-hitting batsman but lamentably has a penchant for relinquishing positions of promise. He scored an unbeaten half century in his first knock for the Cobras at Newlands, and further underlined his ability in a losing cause at the Wanderers.The formidable No8 made his Super Rugby debut in 2015 but a ruptured small intestine and bruised colon sustained against Western Province put the brakes on and almost ended his career. The Junior Bok captain bounced back this season and had the opportunity to captain the Blue Bulls in the Currie Cup.