Kane has committed his future to Spurs by signing a five-year deal to end the uncertainty over his future, with Jan Vertonghen on Friday also agreeing i mp r oved terms.Spurs were determined to keep Kane at White Hart Lane for the long term and chairman Daniel Levy, notoriously such a difficult negotiator, has moved to break their wage ceiling to offer a contract which more than doubles the striker s salary. CHELSEA MARCH ONIt is understood the 23-year-old will earn a basic 90 000 a week with achievable bonuses and incentives raking in a further 30 000 a week.Kane s new deal is not thought to include a sell-on clause, but puts him more in line with other England international forwards such as Jamie Vardy and Daniel Sturridge.The development is a huge boost for Spurs head coach Mauricio Pochettino, who has persuaded Levy to reward the majority of his key players with new deals.Vertonghen, the Belgium international, followed Kane in signing, and there will be a renewed attempt to persuade goalkeeper Hugo Lloris to stay.Yet, Kane is now the highest-paid player in Spurs history after negotiations with his representatives this week. Everyone knows what I feel for this club. To sign another contract is a special feeling. We have got a great young squad and the club is moving in the right direction, said Kane, who has scored six goals so far this season. There have been ups and downs and it s been a great experience so far, I m learning every day and I ll continue to do that for the rest of this season and the rest of my career. It s been a bit of a whirlwind and I haven t really taken it all in, to be honest. It s always on to the next thing. Even now, I ve signed a new contract and it s on to the next thing, working hard and trying to get better. The next step for us is to start winning trophies and being in those highpressure games. Kane s commitment to Spurs has lifted some of the gloom after a disappointing 10 days in which they were knocked out of the Champions League and surrendered their unbeaten league record by losing at title rivals Chelsea. But Pochettino insists the future is bright for his emerging squad. It s good news, but it s true that the last month-and-a-half we all feel disappointed, for different reasons, he said. It s an important thing for us, for the club, for everyone. We all feel very happy because one more time he is showing commitment to the club and the project. - The Daily Telegraph, London