Department of International Relations spokesman Clayson Monyela told the Sunday Times yesterday that China had accepted South Africa's explanation that the breach of the One China policy was committed by an opposition party politician.Monyela said Beijing had not taken offence.Msimanga is currently on a five-day trip to Taiwan, paid for by the island nation's government. He is scheduled to return tomorrow.China insists that Taiwan, off its southern coast, is one of its provinces, while Taipei is equally insistent that it is an independent state. South Africa does not recognise the Taiwanese government.Year of jostling for change in party ranksMsimanga's visit is the latest of the many policy clashes that are expected to take place between local government and the ANC-controlled national government since the DA took control of three major metros - Johannesburg, Tshwane and Nelson Mandela Bay - in the August local government elections.Recently, the new mayor of Johannesburg, Herman Mashaba, came under fire from the national government when he called on illegal immigrants to leave the city.This prompted Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba to seek a meeting with Mashaba.Monyela described Msimanga's trip as an "unnecessary irritation" and said the government had to explain to China that South Africa still subscribed to the One China policy."The Chinese understand that there are multi parties in office on a local government level. And when you get different parties running government we are bound to have these things. We interacted with them and they know we uphold the One China policy," he said.Monyela called into question Msimanga's ethics in accepting a fully paid junket sponsored by a government that South Africa does not have diplomatic ties with."He could have jeopardised South Africa's relations with the world's second-largest economy. For what? For a free trip to Taiwan?" The DA couldn't be bothered by what the ANC's Chinese policy preferences are. We are a different political organisation with a different policy He said Msimanga's office had to explain what the Taipei government expected in return for the trip.Msimanga's spokesman, Samkelo Mgobozi, confirmed that the trip was fully paid for by the Taipei government and said no cost was borne by the City of Tshwane."The executive mayor is mindful of all potential consequences of all his interactions, but places investment in the city as a key strategic area for creating opportunities for the people of Tshwane and believes that these considerations must transcend party political postulations," he said.In 1998, the South African government under president Nelson Mandela adopted the One China policy, which recognises Taiwan and mainland China as part of a single China.Mgobozi said Msimanga had no objection to visiting either the People's Republic of China or Taiwan."The mayor will investigate any and all trade opportunities in the interest of the people of Tshwane," Mgobozi said.Recognising the (most) honourable members ..."This was an exploratory voyage at the invitation of the mayor of Taipei, which did not cost the South African taxpayer anything. The reaction by the Department of International Relations is quite disproportionate."Monyela said the DA had to be mindful that any divergence from South Africa's foreign policy put the national interest at risk."South Africa is not a federal government. We are a republic and a unitary state. The constitution does not allow a sphere of government to act autonomously," he said.But the DA defended Msimanga's visit.Party federal executive chairman James Selfe said no legislation or regulation existed banning contact with Taiwan."The DA couldn't be bothered by what the ANC's Chinese policy preferences are. We are a different political organisation with a different policy."We support the ideal of one China, but we understand it differently. We favour reconciliation between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, not isolation," said Selfe.