Encourage your guests to linger by creating comfortable seating options. If your outdoor furniture is hard and uninviting, be sure to add cushions. Think of the flow of the party - will your guests be lounging around after lunch? If so, lay out some picnic blankets on the lawn. Private chefs take hassle out of festive feasts Set up various stations in different areas, so your guests are forced to roam and mingle. A drinks station in one area of the garden and dessert station in another will ensure no corners go to waste. Use your furniture to define these areas: a large outdoor umbrella not only creates shade, but can also be used to identify an area.Blend the party into its surroundings by using d cor from your garden to spruce up your table. Summer staples such as agapanthus, hibiscus or hydrangeas can make a striking table setting. For a more contemporary look, opt for large leaves, such as elephant ear or strelitzia.Look to your veggie patch for both d cor and practical solutions - large bunches of basil leaves are a sure-fire way to keep flies away when the food comes out.Drinks trolleys are all the rage, and an outdoor party is the perfect excuse to get your hands on one. It's the ideal solution for keeping all your drinks, mixers, utensils and ice in one convenient place. Being on wheels also means it's easy to move around, so you can shift it into the shade, or into the kitchen to restock.Good lighting is important, even though you're outdoors. You can set the tone just right and create a festive atmosphere with a combination of candles, fairy lights and lanterns.</img>Good lighting is important, even though you're outdoors. Image: iStockGood lighting is important, even though you're outdoors. Image: iStockIf you're entertaining in the heat, have lots of solutions for keeping guests cool. Parasols and hand-held fans work well. Homemade popsicles are a healthy and delicious way to keep chilled. And for a welcome treat, wet wash cloths and place them in the freezer, then hand them out to guests to wipe the heat away.Bring a playful element to your outdoor party with a selection of lawn games. Group games such as bowls and croquet add old-world charm and ensure guests mingle.Have plenty of things to keep the kids entertained so parents can chill. Set up activities that kids can play together. Avoid messy games so your friends don't start cleaning up after their little ones.</img>Have plenty of things to keep the kids entertained so parents can chill. Image: iStockHave plenty of things to keep the kids entertained so parents can chill. Image: iStockFill several buckets with ice and drinks and dot them around your various seating areas, so there's always an ice-cold drink at hand.There's no better way to end off an outdoor party than with a fire. Once the sun starts to set, it's a great way to get all your guests together in one spot. Take it a step further by incorporating dessert into the fire - s'mores or toasted marshmallows, anyone?