Confectioner Karen Schneid has created a beautiful range of sweet treats containing the Japanese superfood. Think Matcha and Bergamot marshmallows, Matcha and Orange Blossom French nougat, or Matcha and Yuzu artisan chocolate. Prices from R54. Visit Oohlalaconfectionery.co.za. The perfect summer-time gift, this handcrafted small batch gin is distilled in the heart of Joburg. Made from a selection of 13 African botanicals, including Fynos and Boekenhout Honey, Rose Geranium and Honeybush, which give it a full-bodied, fragrant flavour. R330. Visit Timeanchor.co.za. Under R250: 9 designer Christmas gifts that won't break the bankThis luxury brand's organically grown and ethically produced teas are packed with hand-harvested superfoods which contain no preservatives, colourants or chemical additives. Their San Dji tea is made from organic rooibos with a touch of marula, vanilla and blood orange flavours. R185 for 100g. Visit Akrafo.com. A great gift for braai lovers, the bamboo Plankie Steak is designed for serving meat straight off the grid - just slice it up, add crushed salt in the corner and pass around as a snack. R350; for a special gift, have it custom-engraved for an extra R150. Visit Theblockshop.co.za. This local olive oil is grabbing awards locally and internationally, and was recently honoured with a Best in Show award in New York, where it competed against more than 800 oils from across the globe.Rio Largo uses Italian varietals of olives grown, hand-picked and processed on the banks of the Breede River. This quirky gift can also be customised. R219 for a 1.25l tube. Visit Riolargo.co.za. 7 Christmas markets where you can get your hands on great giftsThis fresh and delicate Rose and Raspberry cordial is based on a traditional Persian recipe. Produced in South Africa, it is created using only natural ingredients and - where possible - the ingredients are organic and grown on the producers' family farm in Magoebaskloof. Free from preservatives, colourants, and other additives, this is a great natural summer refresher. R90 for 500ml. Visit Kuhestan.co.za. Italy's yule-time darling, panettone has been giving traditional English Christmas cake a run for its money. Pasticceria Fraccaro, a family business founded in 1932 and now run by third-generation baker Michele Fraccaro, is available in SA thanks to importers Cremalat. R180 for a classic panettone at Cremalat.co.za. Over 85 downright creative ideas for Christmas gifts Produced in Cape Town, this chocolate is hand- crafted using raw, organic Arriba Nacional cacao from Ecuador. Sweetened with agave nectar, it makes both a vegan-friendly and healthy treat. Each flavour is illustrated by South African artists.The mint slab, pictured, is the work of Maya Marshak. The wrappers are made from eco-friendly, recycled paper, which are individually hand-wrapped. R55. Visit Honestchocolate.co.za. 