The year is 2005. South Korea is the country. The Peace Cup is the tournament. Mamelodi Sundowns are one of the eight participants.They are in Group B alongside Boca Juniors of Argentina, Premier League giants Tottenham Hotspur and Spanish La Liga's Real Sociedad.They bag a victory in the opening match, beating Sociedad courtesy of midfielder Godfrey Sapula's solitary strike. Boos now greet champs LeicesterIt was their only victory. Lerato Chabangu converted the consolation goal in the 3-1 thumping by Spurs. Sapula found the net in the 3-1 defeat to Boca in the final group match.Much has happened in the intervening years.When you fast-forward to 2016, you will realise that much has changed in the make-up, posture and stature of the men from Mamelodi.The seven-time Premier Soccer League champions have grown in leaps and bounds.At continental competition level, they are no longer the little sardines from the south. They've now graduated to shark status, arriving at the Fifa Club World Cup in Japan adorned with the glittering crown of African champions.Their station has elevated the disposition of South African football.Today, they take on Japanese side Kashima Antlers in the quarterfinal. Should they overcome that hurdle, a match of their lives awaits them.Jeez, just the prospect is orgasmic.Coach Pitso "Jingles" Mosimane versus coach Zinedine "Zizou" Zidane. Cristiano Ronaldo versus Khama Billiat.Should they book that historic date, it would be another milestone for club president Patrice Motsepe's megastars.Such a feat will make them the first South African side to play three Spanish outfits.The relationship Motsepe managed to cultivate with then Barca president Joan Laporta resulted in a high-profile friendly match between the two teams in 2007.Many expected Sundowns to be skinned alive. After all, Barcelona possessed terrifying talent at the time... Andres Iniesta, Xavi Hernandez, Pedro Rodriquez, Dani Alves and Carles Puyol.But the Brazilians gave as good as they got when they exchanged friendly fire with the mighty Blaugrana in 2007. Tenacious TendaiIn that fixture at Loftus Versfeld, then Barca's Dutch head coach Frank Rijkaard was quite frank in submitting his admiration for Mbulelo Mabizela for his supreme application of his defensive duties.On that night in the capital city, "OJ" excelled in nullifying the lethal threat of Samuel Eto'o. Surprise Moriri's goal was one of the fastest to be scored against Barca, a minute and 30 seconds from kickoff.A meeting with Real will complete a hat-trick of Spanish engagements and a brace of exchanges against two of the best teams in world football.Should they succeed to jump over the Japanese today, they will mark a momentous milestone. One would love to see them not labouring under the impression that when they come up against international stars, theirs is to be autograph hunters.It is of critical importance that they must not behave like deers caught in headlights. They are not in Japan by chance.They've earned their place in the land of the rising sun. All that's left for them to do is to strut their stuff and show what they are made of.It is an opportunity to showcase their skills. For the likes of Percy Tau and Keagan Dolly, to mention just two, the stage is set for them to attract potential suitors like bees to honey.Today is a great day for South African football. One of our clubs is playing, coached by one of our own, and will show the world what South African football is all about.Here's hoping they start the tournament with a win like they did back in 2005 so that the match-up with Madrid will materialise.@bbkunplugged99