SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Your health is bothering you - nothing drastic, just a reminder to chuck out old habits that are holding you back. Relationships are high priority. So if you've been hesitating, don't. Just make a decision and live with it. And, for once, trust yourself completely. Try to locate a spiritual path. Or teacher. Your soul is waiting to be heard. It has a lot more to say than you would think.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Looking for work? Send out the CV and make the calls now. Then wait. Patience is your lesson, along with the discovery that you are not in control of the planet. A fabulous job awaits, as long as you're willing to stretch your limits. Make friends with the family now, no matter how annoying they've been. The rest of the year is yours to play with. The heavy stuff starts in February.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)The goddess of love, beauty and romance moves in on Thursday, stirring up old passions and launching new ones. The god of courage and confrontation is here, adding spark to each dazzling moment. You're mesmerising everyone in your space. Use your power with care. You're mildly intimidating at the best of times. Note: The communication planet takes a break on the 19th.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)You can be sure that high expectations - particularly of yourself - are destined for disappointment. And when you're feeling let down, nothing will smooth the ruffled feathers. Decide right now to delight in whatever comes your way. You might find something unexpected lurking inside your head. Changes are coming. Actually, they're already here. You just need to open the door.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)An increase in income seems promising, as well as some recognition at work - provided you've been polite to the boss. If you're the boss, behave. Your career is on the rise and you'd better climb aboard if you're keen to follow the plot. It's almost holiday time and your gears are grinding down. But if you keep going full tilt until the 19th, you'll understand what all that effort was really for.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)You think you're being gracious and charming, but basically you're just bulldozing your way through. Which is fine, in that no one's going to push you around this week. But don't expect to make too many friends either. Strangely, you couldn't care less. You're in the mood to test yourself to the limit. Money is looking good. Save some for a different day. And a different adventure.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)The party is on, and you've scarcely spent a night at home. As it should be, provided you spare the odd moment for some work. Your earning power is at its peak so if you're starting something new get on it. The people round you are making money too, so there's plenty available if you need it. Your love life could be taking strain. You're hardly in a faithful mood. Careful with that.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Any chance of a new relationship? If yes, plan carefully - this could be a biggie. And if it's not a relationship you're after, how about a child? Or a more constructive communication with yourself. Whatever the issue, it's your time to be a grown-up. You're being called on to make some decent decisions for a change. And the way to do that is to trust your own heart. Get past your fears.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Power struggles at home, and fights with lovers are virtually guaranteed. So before you start, take a careful look at your love life. If you're ready to move on, do it nicely. If not, watch your mouth very carefully. This is not the time to act in anger. There are so many good ways to use an energy like this: passionate afternoons, creative evenings, new discoveries. The power is in your hands.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Looking for the perfect opportunity to beat up on yourself? To chastise yourself for not being famous, rich or gorgeous enough? This is your big moment, especially if you're in the mood to use all your inventive powers at once. Alternatively, you could write down all the mean things you have to say to yourself, burn the letter and then buy yourself a present. Only you can stop your suffering.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Relationships could be in trouble now, especially if someone is not carrying their share of the load. A closer, more honest, look at individual strengths and weaknesses will help. Failing that, minor changes may be needed. Put yourself first. Ask yourself what you want out of the deal, and move forward from there. Spare some time for your health. You're hanging on to more tension than you need.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Friends and relatives are going through a jealous patch. Try not to react, and use all that extra charm to make them feel needed. The bosses are giving you a hard time too; something that is more about them than you. In short, everyone wishes they were you - for reasons you don't understand. Take none of this personally and give yourself a hug now and then. This madness will pass.