The Jamaican was on the short list with South African Wayde van Niekerk and England s Mo Farah. Maybe I would have been at four Olympics, the superstar Jamaican sprinter told reporters on Friday before being crowned IAAF male Athlete of the Year again on the back of his amazing Rio de Janeiro Games sprint triple-triple in August. The award is definitely a big deal, it proves all the hard work has paid off, he said after Olympic 10 000m champion and world record holder Almaz Ayana of Ethiopia took the women s award. The fans helped vote for this and it s for the fans I keep doing it. Bolt plans to hang up his spikes next year after a farewell tour of his favourite venues.He will run the 100m only before competing at the world championships in London, where he will be gunning for his 12th and 13th world titles if he goes in the relay. When I look back the only real thing I think I would change was to have got more serious more quickly, said Bolt. I was relying more on my talent. If I d got more serious I think I would have done a lot more in my career. It s shocking but it s true. Maybe if I d started younger I d have had four Olympics. Despite his multiple titles and records, Bolt said the race that would always have a place in his heart was the world junior championships in his home country when he won the 200m as a 15-year-old. That was special, he said. That was the beginning. Jamaica 2002, where it all began. That was the biggest step. But it was a defeat five years later that made the biggest impact.Bolt took the 200m silver behind American Tyson Gay at the 2007 Osaka world championships and it was a real wake-up call. After I lost I remember going to my coach saying, I really tried my best but what can I do to win because I really need to win? , Bolt explained. He said: You re slacking off in the gym. If you want to win you have to get stronger. So I was like alright . I knew what I needed to do and from then I took the step and just worked and worked. Within nine months Bolt was the 100m world record holder and weeks later blasted himself into world consciousness by winning the 100 and 200 and 4x100 relay at the Beijing Olympics in spectacular style.- Reuters