Perhaps one of the more brainless, and dangerous, utterances belongs to President Jacob Zuma. His remark that church leaders should not involve themselves in politics is not only nonsensical but displays incredible hypocrisy.Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town Thabo Makgoba was right to scold him in his Christmas sermon at St George's Cathedral."Can you believe it?" he asked. "A president of a democratic South Africa telling the church to stay out of politics? You would be forgiven for thinking that you had climbed into a time machine and gone back 30 years into the past, when apartheid presidents said the same thing." Strongmen on way out may be swallows of an African summerZuma is becoming notorious for making such naughty statements. He once told his supporters a vote for the ANC would get them into heaven.Although Zuma has been in politics his entire life, his ignorance remains undisturbed and undiluted. It often defies comprehension that such a man was ANC head of intelligence.To ask the church to recuse itself from politics betrays a lack of knowledge or understanding of the history of our people and their innumerable struggles, but also a failure to understand the essence of democracy.Freedom of speech is the bedrock of any democratic system that is worth its salt.One does not have to be Christian or religious to appreciate the role played by the church and other faiths in the political life of this country.In fact, it can be argued that one of the reasons for the deterioration that we generally see around us is the fact that religious leaders have either taken a back seat or have been muted in their condemnation of wrongdoing. Since the demise of apartheid that moral voice has not always been sufficiently firm and vocal.Instead, our attention has been captured by the charlatans who compel their congregants to eat grass and lizards and drink petrol.Those, I suppose, are the sort of church leaders of whom Zuma approves. They don't bother themselves with politics.It may be news to Zuma, but the struggle against apartheid was led from the pulpit. And that applies to all political formations.The founders of the ANC were the black intelligentsia, among them teachers, lawyers and priests. Two of its earlier presidents, John Dube and Zacharias Mahabane, were men of the cloth. Albert Luthuli, perhaps the ANC's most iconic and peaceable president, was a Methodist lay preacher. And then there was James Calata from Cradock, the first black canon in the Anglican church, who was secretary-general of the ANC for more than a decade. Those selfsame freedom fighters now ensconced in power and living off the fat of the state regard people like Tutu as traitors Robert Sobukwe also, often perceived as a radical in some quarters, came into politics via the church. He was a staunch Methodist.Black theology, which sought to liberate black people from all forms of oppression, was an intrinsic part of the black consciousness movement.Many of its proponents were young priests who often went against the wishes of their church in openly identifying with the suffering of the masses, and made their church buildings available for people fleeing the state.One has in mind people such as Geoff Moselane in Sharpeville and Buti Tlhagale, now a Catholic archbishop, who turned the Regina Mundi church into something of a bastion of the struggle in Soweto.How can anyone forget the role played by Beyers Naud , who defied his own volk and suffered for it, in order to be true to his calling? Or Denis Hurley, who was the epitome of grace and humility? World must learn to live with Trump joke that turned into a nightmare People like Trevor Huddleston helped to publicise the anti-apartheid struggle outside the country.It was Allan Boesak, now discarded and forgotten, who first mooted the idea of a united democratic front. The fight against apartheid immediately entered the home straight after the formation of the UDF.And, of course, Desmond Tutu was always in the thick of things, at mass funerals in the townships or out in the sticks with people being forcibly removed, always chiding those in power and consoling the aggrieved, while the likes of Zuma, the freedom fighters, watched from afar.The archbishop emeritus's letter to National Party prime minister John Vorster on the eve of the cataclysmic 1976 uprisings was nothing short of prophetic.Those selfsame freedom fighters now ensconced in power and living off the fat of the state regard people like Tutu as traitors.Such people, and many others too numerous to name, should be treasured. They don't have to apologise to anybody. They are a credit to this country. They add a moral content to our affairs, if they are not the conscience of the nation itself.And their message hasn't changed. What has changed, though, is the position of people like Zuma. He is now in power, where criticism comes with the territory. He should just learn to live with it. After all, the buck stops with him.