Any second thoughts about taking this job?No, absolutely not. The more I get sucked into it the more I realise the need for privileged South Africans to get involved, otherwise we allow our city to be hijacked by criminals.Is this what is happening in Johannesburg?All over the country. If civil society doesn't stand up, then criminals will take advantage of our democratic system.Mashaba sticks to his guns about illegal immigrantsAren't you playing a dangerous game when you link crime with immigrants?Criminals are not just foreigners.According to your reported remarks you seem to think that in Johannesburg they largely are?I was talking about the City of Johannesburg being hijacked by criminals. One of the journalists asked about foreigners, but I wasn't putting the blame squarely on foreigners.But you believe they're a large part of the problem?Having so many people with no documents in our city compounds the problem. It makes it difficult for law enforcement agencies to deal with it.Why?Every time they get arrested or the police have got to investigate cases, it becomes very difficult when you have so many people in the city who don't have official documentation. It makes it difficult to control crime when you don't know who's who.So what is your answer?I had a very successful meeting with the minister of home affairs, and we're going to be having another session in the new year where I can present to him and his executive and other agencies of government the challenges that we are facing.What do you want from them?The borders must be properly controlled. When people are in our city they have to make sure as a matter of urgency that they are given the proper documentation so that we know who is in our city.How do you intend dealing with illegal immigrants in the meantime?I'm saying I need home affairs to come and assist me.</img>Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has warned illegal immigrants that he will take care of them, within the law. Image: MOELETSI MABEJohannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has warned illegal immigrants that he will take care of them, within the law. Image: MOELETSI MABEUntil then, what is your plan for the thousands of people staying in these slum blocks in the city?I'm planning to have an engagement with the national government to ensure that these people are legalised to be in the country. And as for those that don't belong in our country, those who are here for criminal purposes, to have our government send them back where they came from.So your plan is to wait for national government to do something?I can't go out there and kick them out. If I had the right that is what I would do, but I have to operate within the legal framework in ensuring that we reclaim the city and all those hijacked buildings.Are you arranging alternative accommodation?I don't have the resources to do that. The national government is directly responsible for this situation. If we did not have such porous borders we would not be sitting with this problem.Until government deals with it, what do you do?I'm not going to kick them out.Are you backing down? Weren't you pretty much warning them you would do precisely that?I'm warning anyone, whether you're an illegal immigrant or a criminal in the City of Johannesburg, we will deal with you, and we will deal with you within the legal framework.Why has the ANC reported you to the Human Rights Commission?I don't know if they're playing a political game - if they believe I've transgressed the law they have a right to report me. It would only be fair to ask them that question.Was there any feedback from your party leadership after your comments about illegal immigrants? Did Mmusi Maimane meet with you?I've met with the party, and fortunately they were looking at exactly what I said when I'm calling for the rule of law in the City of Johannesburg. How would anyone regard that as xenophobic?Two types of illegal immigrants in SA those with malicious intentions and those who want to contribute to economyWasn't he furious with you for opening the party to an attack on that front?Would anyone attack me for asking people to respect the rule of law?If you want the rule of law, why do you attack human rights lawyers?So-called human rights lawyers.What do you mean "so-called"?How can you be a human rights lawyer when you allow young children to live under those deplorable conditions and you don't allow anybody to touch them? You can't have people come into the city illegally, hijack buildings, live in these deplorable conditions, and then you defend them and say you're a human rights lawyer.Surely they're entitled to protection under the law?The protection of the law has to take into consideration the living conditions of those people.How do you feel about being likened to Donald Trump?We come from two totally different worlds. I don't see how you can see any similarities.Are you learning that running a modern world-class city is not like being the CEO of your own company?How can you call this a world-class city with such massive inequalities and high unemployment?