The Holiday Express is a festive train-ride experience that ticks the boxes for the whole family.7 tips to keep you sane while travelling with small kidsIt's a full-day trip that leaves Durban Station each morning from December 26 to 31 to wend its way along the south coast, where 90 minutes later you arrive in Scottburgh.There you will spend the day at the seaside, returning home in the afternoon.The trip itself is loads of fun - a Christmas movie will be screened, kids get bubbles, magazines, colouring books, crayons and popcorn and will be entertained by characters including Mrs Christmas and a special train conductor.WHERE: From Durban Station.WHEN: December 26 to 31.COST: R250 per adult and R200 per child. Combo deals available for families.CONTACT: See theholidayexpress.co.za.Spend a day at Hillcrest Paintball, on a farm that comprises three playing fields in five safe, abandoned buildings in the heart of the Valley of 1,000 hills. On offer is paintball for those over 10, as well as Splatmaster for the seven-to-10 group. All games are supervised by marshals.Exhausted parents can chill over coffee and a burger at the Adventure Caf while the kids spend two hours making a mess. Bookings are mandatory.WHERE: 15 Wootton Avenue, Botha's Hill.COST: From R100 per two-hour session per person to R230 per person.CONTACT: 074-172-1309 or see hillcrestpaintball.co.za.</img>The action at Hillcrest Paintball happens on a farm in the heart of the Valley of 1,000 Hills. Image: SuppliedThe action at Hillcrest Paintball happens on a farm in the heart of the Valley of 1,000 Hills. Image: SuppliedBuff, the trendy new beauty parlour in Umhlanga, has a specific area that caters to tweens. Girls aged nine and up have an exclusive-use area, where they can indulge in a Princess Pedi or a Magic Mani that includes any amount of sparkle and bling nail art their heart desires.There's also a standing mirror so they can experiment with age-appropriate skincare products. Great for girlie groups - the salon sells fun things like birthday badges and tiaras - or for mom-and-daughter bonding. Moms can order cappuccinos while girls get hot chocolate topped with marshmallows and a gourmet doughnut. Buff gets busy, so book.WHERE: 19 Park Drive, Umhlanga.WHEN: Weekdays 8am - 6pm; Saturdays 8am - 4pm; closed Sundays.COST: From R100.CONTACT: 087-287-9878.Durban has a national reputation for staging the best holiday panto in the country. This year it's Sleeping Beauty, which plays at the Elizabeth Sneddon Theatre. The enchanting production is inspired by Disney's Frozen, all Gothic towers wreathed with snow, crystal and ice.Aside from Princess Rose and her handsome prince, characters include her hard of hearing father, nurse Nora Knickersnagger, good fairy Celestina Sparkle and the evil Maleficent.WHERE: Mazisi Kunene Road, Durban.WHEN: December 2 - January 8.COST: R150 - R220 for adults, R120 - R170 for kids.CONTACT: See sneddontheatre.co.za or book at Computicket.