There is within me a 13-year-old who still mourns the passing of Zsa Zsa Gabor almost as a first love. While all the other boys went dotty over the pouting sexiness of Brigitte Bardot, I was captivated by the beauty of this Hungarian with the funny name.Whenever she came to London, invariably followed by armies of photographers, to whom she played up outrageously, I would go to the West End and hover outside her hotel (usually Claridge's) in the hope of catching a glimpse.A year or two later, when I imagined that I had outgrown this crush, I wrote to her. She replied with a glossy photograph on which she inscribed: "London without you isn't the same. Hurry up, finish your studies, and be again my bodyguard. Your friend, Zsa Zsa." She had noticed!Over the years, I got to know her - eventually - and to cherish the woman behind the dazzle. To call her an actress would be an exaggeration. Her one great film, Moulin Rouge, was set in late 19th-century Paris. Jos Ferrer played the artist Toulouse-Lautrec, acting on his knees to simulate dwarfism. Gabor was a nightclub singer, a performance critics derided as almost bad enough to be brilliant.Though she lived in Hollywood for 70 years, the Americans never understood her. They thought her an empty-headed, wise-cracking broad, who collected husbands. There were nine, and scores of lovers, including Richard Burton, who liked his own voice so much that he talked throughout.Gabor narrowly avoided becoming Elizabeth Taylor's mother-in-law. Taylor, then 18, married Nicky Hilton, son of Gabor's sometime husband Conrad Hilton, whom she divorced just in time.Bernard Shaw touched her knee, and the playboy Porfirio Rubirosa, said to be embarrassingly well-equipped for love, escorted her but did not marry her. She kept a picture of him alongside those of her husbands whom she loved, and told me that his physical reputation was well deserved.All this was fodder for the gossip columns, and Gabor was masterful in her manipulation of Hollywood's values. But she was not devoured by it, for she had a style and sophistication beyond Hollywood's capacity to comprehend. I discovered the aristocrat that she really was when a newspaper sent me to spend a day with her and we forged a connection based on a seductive combination of fun and respect.Zsa Zsa was a nickname. Sari Gabor was one of three daughters of a rich diamond merchant in Budapest. She retained an aloofness and disdain for vulgarity which the public never suspected.She had been Miss Hungary as a teenager, as well as the country's junior fencing champion. Her secret ambition was to be a veterinary surgeon, a passion that apparently never abated, to judge by the dog baskets in every corner of her vast kitchen.She also had a 12ha ranch outside Los Angeles where she kept her 19 racehorses.Her first marriage had been to a Turkish diplomat, whereupon she had become Muslim for a while, but never really abandoned her Roman Catholicism. I got the impression that all the decisions of her life had been taken on trust, that she was a woman of compelling simplicity and honesty, to the point of naivety.She certainly behaved with me as with a childhood friend, never showing off, never trying to be clever. She promised to cook me a big Hungarian meal, and I believe she could.I spoke with her friend Kathryn Grayson, the singing star of Show Boat and other Hollywood musicals, who told me that Gabor was the most loyal friend she ever had."She makes herself glamorous because she feels that she owes it to her admirers, but she is really down-to-earth. I'll never forget seeing her on her hands and knees scrubbing the kitchen floor, and doing a better job of it than the cleaner, too."In 1989, when she was in her 70s, Gabor was assaulted by a policeman who pulled her car over. He threw her across the bonnet and handcuffed her."If it had been me," said Grayson, "I would have murdered that policeman. She was black and blue when she came round to see me."Nevertheless, it was Gabor who was convicted of assault. She served three days in prison and was sentenced to community service in a school.The story has a touching postscript. She went back to visit the school. One of the children was a black boy, so emotionally damaged that he had not uttered a word for years. As soon as he saw Gabor, he blurted out that he had missed her, and the entire class wept in astonishment.It doesn't surprise me, for children see the truth that publicists ignore.It was the language of fun in which she excelled. I promised to take her to lunch next time she came to London. Sure enough, one day the telephone rang, and that beguiling voice came down the line. "Vis is Zsa Zsa. Ven are you taking me out? "We went to the Ivy, Gabor making sure to be just 10 minutes late so that she could make an entrance.- The Daily Telegraph, London