Fashionistas also need to remember not to pack skin creams in their hand luggage and don't forget to change your cellphone settings.Here's a comprehensive guide compiled by the Flight Centre Travel Group to help you through it without drama:Traveling abroad? Make sure your passport is valid for up to six months and has two blank pages if you are travelling abroad. Ensure you have the correct visas for travel inclusive of transits. Ensure you have all the necessary documentation for your travel including vouchers if applicable. If you're travelling with a minor child (under 18), ensure that you have the child's unabridged birth certificate which lists the details of both parents. If you are travelling alone with a minor child you also need consent in the form of an affidavit (not more than three months old) from the other parent authorising you to enter and depart from South Africa with the minor child. Make sure you have an international driving permit and your South African driver s licence if you intend hiring a rental car abroad. You'll also need a valid credit card. If you ve made a flight booking online make sure you'll have the credit card you used to pay for your ticket in your possession when you check in. If someone else paid for your flight ensure that you have a copy of the credit card (front and back) used to pay for the booking. Flying locally? Booked your flight online? See the point above. If you re travelling locally with a minor child (under 18) make sure you are in possession of their birth certificate or identity document. Don t forget to carry identification if you are flying locally. Either an ID document or a driver s licence will suffice but an ID document is preferable. You need your South African driver s licence and a valid credit card to hire a car locally. If you do not want to incur exorbitant roaming costs while travelling abroad check with your cellphone provider how to change your phone settings to either only allow SMS roaming or access-only Wi-Fi while overseas. You need to do this before you leave South Africa or you run the risk of incurring high costs. Ensure that your laptop is charged as some airports ask you to switch it on when going through security checks to prove that it is a genuine laptop.Hand luggage:Ensure that your cabin baggage/hand luggage is not too heavy or bulky. You are allowed one bag (weighing not more than 7kg and with maximum dimensions of 56cm x 36cm x 23cm) plus one slimline laptop bag/handbag per passenger. Hand-baggage limits are often strictly enforced during peak times and on packed flights.What to include in your hand luggage: story_article_right2 A black pen;this will save time as you can fill in the immigration form/s while you stand in the immigration queue or while waiting to disembark. A change of clothing underwear and a toothbrush in your hand luggage in case your checked baggage goes missing or is delayed. If you are travelling to the northern hemisphere, carry a change of warm clothing in your hand luggage (hat coat gloves).What NOT to pack in your hand luggage: Do not carry any liquids/creams exceeding 100ml (including bottled water) in your hand luggage if you are taking an international flight as these will be confiscated. Do not carry any sharp objects (including nail files nail clippers and knives) in your hand luggage/cabin baggage as these will be confiscated.Check-in luggage: Make sure when travelling to the US that you have the applicable TSA approved security locks on your bags. Consider bubble-wrapping your check-in luggage for added security. Tie a ribbon or colourful tag to your luggage for easy identification on the baggage carousel.NOTE: NEVER leave your bags unattended at the airport. Unattended bags may spark a security lockdown that will disrupt check-in and may lead to you being detained for questioning and potentially missing your flight. Consider using the Gautrain if you re in Joburg as traffic is likely to be congested en route to and at the airport which may cause delays. Alternatively take a taxi have a friend drop you off or park in the long-stay car park. If you choose to park in the long-stay car park allow for at least 30 minutes to make your way to the airport building. Make a note of your parking bay or take a picture in case you forget. Keep your parking ticket in a secure place. Ensure that you arrive at the airport three hours prior to the departure of your international flight as stipulated. Allow two hours in advance for a domestic flight. Check in online 24 hours before your flight so you can select your seat and buy yourself some time in case you are delayed. Make your way directly to the check-in counter when you arrive at the airport in case there are long queues or computer-system delays. Ensure that your name on your ticket is spelled correctly. You will not be allowed to board the flight if it is incorrect. Take your laptop out while you re in the queue for security scanning to avoid holding up other travellers. Make your way to your boarding gate as soon as possible. Delays are often caused by passengers who do not make it to the boarding gate on time causing them to be bumped from the flight. If you can pass the time in one of the lounges. Customers of certain banks and holders of certain bank accounts are permitted free access to the slow lounge. If you are battling to entertain your children take them up to the viewing deck available at most airports to watch the planes take off and land.