There's still time for 2016 to deliver a couple more body blows, so I'm reluctant to say that anything is "the final straw" for this year. We've yet got two weeks spare with space for new finance ministers, or further celebrity deaths, or terrible reboots of classic movies.But surely one of the most brutal penultimate kicks in the teeth from this annus horribilis was the news that giraffes are going extinct. Giraffes! We've managed to screw up having giraffes too. Not just a tall story - giraffe shock for boffinsGiraffes: only the best of all animals! We were never worthy of those strange, graceful, long-neck-having quadrupeds, and now we've proved it definitively.In my obsessive reading about giraffes and their "silent extinction", I did experience a bit of a double-take at one quote from the director of the Giraffe Conservation Foundation. The problem, he said, is that "everyone assumes giraffes are everywhere". Dunno about you, but I really don't.That is an assumption that has literally never crossed my mind. I do not think of giraffes as all-terrain beasts, equally at home in a corporate boardroom as on the plains of the Serengeti.I could talk about giraffes all day. The other reason they've been on my mind lately, though, is because I've been watching BBC's exquisite new Planet Earth 2.You may have seen a clip from the documentary of a baby iguana escaping a seething maelstrom of serpents - watch it below - which is an apt metaphor for all of us and 2016.That clip, though dramatic, is only a taster of the full wonder of the show. There are flamingoes comically falling over. There are dancing bears. There are nightmarish swarms of locusts. There are hatchling turtles shuffling towards their inevitable death in the big city.And, happily, there are giraffes. One in particular, shown administering the ass-kicking of the century to a predatory lioness in the Namib desert. All the other giraffes need to watch this footage as inspiration for how to deal with humans.WATCH as snakes chase down an iguana on an episode of Planet Earth 2 The show is being hailed as the greatest nature documentary ever made, and even to call it a "nature documentary" seems reductive.This isn't dreary Sunday afternoon stuff, or the kind of thing a biology substitute teacher would stick on for a few minutes' sleep. Part action movie, part comedy, part love story, Planet Earth 2 captures the beauty, complexity and brutality of life on earth better than any piece of television I've seen this year.And here's a piece of information that gave me a surge of hope: more British youth watched the first few episodes of Planet Earth 2 than watched the most recent series of talent show The X Factor. So 2016 hasn't totally broken us yet. 'Planet Earth 2 ' will be on DStv in SA in February 2017.