Gravy is a damn fine thing. People worry about making it "properly", but there can never really be a proper recipe for gravy because every instance of gravy-making is determined by the nature of the juices the roast leaves you with.What there is, instead of a recipe, is a set of elements. Just balance these and all will be well.THE FOUR ELEMENTS THAT MAKE UP A GREAT GRAVYThese are umami (savouriness), liquid, acid, fat and thickener (plus seasoning, naturally). Sometimes two of these elements are present in one ingredient, for example when wine is the liquid and the acid. The elements can be concocted from a huge variety of things, as long as they each fulfil that function.Roast chicken with herb butter stuffing1) UmamiFor the umami base, always use the browned bits in the roasting pan. This will taste best if garlic cloves and onion pieces were in the tray. Good soy sauce adds umami too (and salt, obviously).Once your roast is cooked (in a flame-proof container for ease), remove it, place the container over heat and start the gravy by deglazing: this is when you add the liquid element to help loosen all the browned umami bits. Scraping well is essential. The liquid can be water, wine, stock, a liqueur, or a mixture.Note that a brilliant vegetarian version can be made by slow-roasting well-oiled and seasoned mushrooms, celery, onion, and garlic, and deglazing from there.2) AcidFor the acid, use wine, a little rice vinegar, tamarind, lemon or orange.3) FatThere's usually enough fat in the roasting tray (sometimes so much that you should spoon it off) but if not, whisk in a little butter or cream.4) ThickeningThickening makes people nervous. I like Maizena cornflour as thickener because the lump risk is low: just mix a few teaspoons with a quarter cup of extra liquid. The ratio of thickener to total gravy volume varies wildly, so go slowly.If your gravy thins out again after it was good and thick, blame your saliva. This is what my paternal grandmother told me anyhow: saliva contains the enzyme amylase for the purpose of breaking down starch, and when you repeatedly lick the spoon and put it back in the pot while tasting, the amylase can (the theory goes) do the same thing to the starch in your sauce.Always use one spoon for dipping into the pot and transfer to a second spoon for tasting. Remember that cornflour stops working if heated too crazily for too long. Once thick, check saltiness again and balance.This article was originally published in The Times.