Wridgway is in a battle with Emmarentia Primary School over its decision last year to change the uniform from plain grey-and-white to a khaki ensemble. He says the new uniform will cost more and is available only from limited suppliers, or from the school."The school ... had grey shorts or pants and white shirts as the base uniform. They then moved to a bespoke uniform. My right as a consumer to shop around is being infringed," he said.The school has given parents two years to make the switch, but Wridgway has told the school he will not move to the new version. That exclusive look is expensive Wridgway's complaint is one of about a dozen that triggered a Competition Commission investigation into allegations that parents' rights were being violated. The Sunday Times reported last week that the commission was poised to crack down on the R10-billion school-uniform industry because exclusive supplier arrangements resulted in parents having to pay more.In the wake of the report, the commission has been inundated with complaints."There's been an overwhelming response from parents, stakeholders and other interest groups," said commission spokesman Sipho Ngwema. "We have received more individual anecdotes and complaints through our social platforms and registry. Parents seem to be pointing towards more prevalence of anti-competitive conduct and exorbitant pricing." He said this would be consolidated and the commission would go on the offensive in the new year."We want to get to the bottom of the matter and take a holistic approach in the end ... the school uniform saga will be on top of our agenda," he said.This was welcome news for Wridgway."A white short-sleeve shirt for a six- or seven-year-old from Woolworths is R75 for one, and for a nine- or 10-year-old is R95. These are the sizes applicable to my kids. Boys' shorts are also from R75 and longs from R140. You can buy cheaper elsewhere and may get further savings buying bulk packs. This is compared to the R150 for a short-sleeve golfer shirt from the school and R260 for Dickies khaki pants."You can literally buy two shirts for the price of one bespoke school golfer shirt," he said. When sizes are out of stock, you wait for months and can't shop around. While you wait your child is scared they will be shouted at for not having the correct uniform Attempts to get comment from the school were unsuccessful, but Ngwema confirmed that the commission had met the school officials."The commission established that the suppliers were not contracted through a competitive bidding process. The commission advised the school that when contracting school-uniform suppliers, the school must adopt a competitive bidding process," said Ngwema, adding that the school had accepted these recommendations.A Johannesburg divorced mother of three, who did not want to be named, said the uniform at her children's school in Centurion was available from any uniform shop until a decision last year to enter into an agreement with a single supplier. She now paid double for some items. No happy new year for school uniform monopoliesBuying the uniform at the school shop was also a problem because it opened only in the mornings, she said."Some of us don't have flexible working hours, therefore struggle to get there. When sizes are out of stock, you wait for months and can't shop around. While you wait your child is scared they will be shouted at for not having the correct uniform," she said.A parent from Mpumalanga said "one little shop the size of a garage" supplied all the schools in Nelspruit."You're talking of more than 4,000 kids. Prices are high and the quality is crap," the parent said.He said one school changed designs halfway through the year, giving parents deadlines to buy uniforms."Kids are given demerits if they don't comply, making them feel discriminated against if they don't have the 'new' socks or shirts or skirts. School uniforms have become a money-making machine bleeding parents dry," he said.