It's important to make your guests feel welcome and ensure they are comfortable in the space.Here are some tips on how to prepare that special room:Top of the list are bed linen and towels - these add to the general atmosphere of the room and should be comfortable, cosy and calming. Stay away from synthetic fibres and loud colours and prints. Budget for the best quality and style that you can afford.We asked The Linen House team to share some of their expertise. Here are their top tips: "Get the basics right by investing in mattress toppers; these provide a luxurious cushion of comfort and softness. They make all the difference to a wonderful lie-in - the things holidays are made of. "Choosing the right linen can be daunting, so we recommend cotton sateen sheets which are lustrous and smooth. A bamboo-cotton blend is soft and silky with a beautiful drape. They are also environmentally friendly, hypoallergenic and have a higher thread count that makes them softer and easier on the skin. "Reversible duvet covers are versatile, allowing you to change the look instantly. Collect a few that reflect your favourite aesthetic and then swap over for some different looks. "Layer textures and prints and play with colour, always keeping it subtle and luxurious. Remember to add a few soft scatter cushions and a light throw to allow your guest the comfort of an afternoon nap."10 ways to refresh your home without spending a cent Ensure that the room is decluttered and spacious and does not feel like a storeroom - just include the essentials for comfort.Storage is really important, so add towel hooks, a space to put luggage, and ample space to allow guests to unpack and store their clothing and essentials. This is vital to their comfort, especially during longer stays.A bedside table is always a must and should ideally be kitted out with a bedside lamp, a small music/clock radio and, of course, a carafe of fresh water. Add a few books and magazines for easy reading. A small fan is useful during hot summer nights and also helps keep the bugs away.Go the extra mile to ensure your guests' comfort by equipping them with a dressing gown and slippers, a hair dryer, a spare cellphone and laptop charger, pain killers, ear plugs, and definitely a natural mosquito repellent - anything you think might add to their individual comfort needs. A mosquito net adds a feeling of romance - and obviously helps keep the mozzies away.Lastly, ensure that the room has a welcoming feel by adding a few fresh flowers or leaves from the garden. A dash of some lavender linen spray or a votive candle will add to the ambiance.