After all, he's in his own class as a centre-forward in the Premier Soccer League, having netted 11 goals in the same number of matches. That's 14 off Collins Mbesuma's 2004/05 record of 25 goals that propelled the Ted Dumitru-coached Kaizer Chiefs to the league title that season.Having played with Mbesuma at Mpumalanga Black Aces, Ndoro knows the record is up for grabs and should he get there, the Zambian bulldozer may have played an inadvertent role."When you play football, you do want to leave history where it is and focus on something that will take you forward. Shapa Downs, Shapa! "I remember when I played with Mbesuma at Aces and he pronounced that no one will reach his record, especially when people made references to his weight. I realised the substance of his words because I understood you can't be judged on your size, it's all about how you deliver," Ndoro said."He still holds the record and I won't lie, my aim is to score more goals without putting myself under pressure. He's a true professional and he's one of those who said to me he wants me to achieve more in football. I really respect him."Should the Real Madrid and Manchester United supporter find himself winning the Lesley Manyathela award, he'll be joining an illustrious Zimbabwean group that includes Wilfred Mugeyi and current national teammate Knowledge Musona.However, there's the bigger fish Zimbabwe need to fry in the Gabon-held African Cup of Nations. It's the Warriors' first appearance in 10 years. Zimbabwe haven't been past the group stages in their two attempts (2004 and 2006), but the 31-year-old said it's about time they make their mark.After all, they also carry the hopes of the Southern African Development Community which collectively failed in the group stages.The Kalisto Pasuwa-coached group is commonly viewed as Zimbabwe's best footballing generation since the early to mid-1990s when the likes of Peter Ndlovu strutted their stuff."We are all happy, the nation is happy and Southern Africa is happy and we know we made history by getting into the tournament. We know we have to do better than what has been done in the past and get past the group stage. I was at school playing junior football when we watched the Ndlovu brothers, Benjani Mwaruwari, Tapuwa Kapini and Tinashe Nengomasha playing in Tunisia," Ndoro said."We did not want to miss any game and when they played, time stopped and I know the feeling now because we as a group will be doing the same. It's been a long time since we played in Afcon and we need to make it count. The fact the majority of the national team players campaign in the PSL makes it feel like we play for the same club at international level." Men from Mamelodi have grown in statureBefore Ndoro intends leaving a continental calling card, there is the matter of ensuring Pirates end the year on an even keel.Like his heroes Cristiano Ronaldo, David Beckham and Eric Cantona, the onus is on him to carry his team.That explains the mimicking of Ronaldo's celebration, the number seven jersey and the shouldering of the scoring responsibilities.Unlike the three Red Devil greats who inspired their team to unimaginable heights, with Ronaldo shooting through the Galaxy with Real Madrid, Ndoro's had to contend with the mediocrity at Pirates.Only Thabiso Kutumela, Oupa Manyisa and Justice Chabalala have scored for the club this season. The club only has two trophies to play for this season while they celebrate their 80th anniversary. Ndoro didn't try to put himself ahead of the team but the lack of a collective contribution is a source of frustration for Ndoro."While scoring the goals is all good and well, we need to succeed as a team and I'm part of the team. It's not about me. We must be the team and Tendai comes second. I play and score for the team and I haven't achieved anything. I'm employed to score goals but the fact we can't hold leads and score is frustrating but it's football," Ndoro said.sports@timesmedia.co.za