With a 12th straight league win and the opportunity over this next week to emulate the 14-match streak of one of Ars ne Wenger's finest ever teams, the context for Antonio Conte's Chelsea is beginning to extend beyond their immediate competitors.Where might they eventually rate among the best Chelsea teams of the entire Roman Abramovich era? And could they really stand shoulder-to-shoulder with that 2002 Arsenal vintage of Thierry Henry, Dennis Bergkamp, Robert Pires and Patrick Vieira?It might seem premature just yet to say so, but a squad that is currently striding towards a second title in three years - as well as a series of all-time Premier League records - is at least now threatening to legitimise such lofty comparison. 2016's amazing (g)race as Chelsea was lost now found and Leicester found but now lostEden Hazard can provide the perspective of Chelsea in the years since 2012 and, although he did later qualify the remark, his first instinct was to suggest that this team is already superior to the squad of 2014/15 that finished champions under Jos Mourinho with 87 points."Yes; because we win every game," said Hazard following the 3-0 win against Bournemouth. "We are full of confidence. I don't know if it's the best Chelsea I've played in but it's a good team."There was also what felt like a pointed reference to how Chelsea are playing under Conte than when Mourinho was manager."We try to do something that we didn't do in the past; we score some goals," said Hazard. The Belgian did not elaborate but, having also talked of wanting to find "freedom", it is clear that he is currently relishing life under Conte.Hazard started as central striker against The Cherries following Diego Costa's suspension and, as he interchanged freely with Willian and Pedro, delivered an all-round individual performance.Conte stressed that he was also carefully monitoring for Hazard's wider team play but he does seem to have struck the optimum balance in his handling of such a gifted player."The most important thing is him putting his talent in the team," said Conte. "It's fantastic for me to see the great job he is doing with the ball but also without the ball." Red Devils start to believeHazard himself had expected Michy Batshuayi to start as the main striker and does not now expect to keep Costa's central place. "I was thinking Michy was playing centre forward but, in the last moment, he [Conte] put me in front. I try to find a freedom. I know the position. We are all different players; Pedro, Willian and me."That next match is at home to Stoke City tomorrow and, should Chelsea win, they will have amassed 49 points over the first half of the season. That in itself would put them ahead of schedule for another all-time Premier League record; the 95 points that Mourinho's first Chelsea team amassed in 2004/05.According to Wilshere, it is Chelsea's versatility that currently sets them apart."I've been here [at Stamford Bridge] a few times with Arsenal and we've only won once but they're more ruthless," said the 24-year-old."They change their game planning depending on who they are playing. I think that's the sign of a top team." - The Daily Telegraph, London