It shows President Barack Obama and the First Lady Michelle Obama meeting a bubbly, energetic centenarian, Virginia McLaurin. The entire time Michelle Obama seems in awe of just how much energy 106-year-old McLaurin seems to have.All I was thinking the entire time was: "I bet she has that much energy because she has spent more than 35 years of her life sleeping." I know, I know. But of course it's true if she's a "normal" human being who slept an average of eight hours a night most of her life.fdf Of course, at her age it wouldn't surprise me if she slept only four hours a night. Life is truly a cycle, isn't it? When we're children we expend inordinate amounts of energy trying to fight sleep. That's why infants wail when they're dozing off. It's a sleep buzzer that means, "I just got here! I don't wanna sleep! There's so much to do: Sun City, Disneyland, the Eiffel Tower!"By the time you're in a retirement village there's a different reason you don't sleep:"It's almost time to check out. Why should I waste my last five years sleeping when I could be up drinking cocoa and playing '30 Seconds' with the pretty little thing with a walker from Unit 13B?"And yet between the early years and the twilight years, we can't wait to get to bed. We complain bitterly about not having enough sleep. We spend a fortune on sleeping pills. If you've ever logged on to Twitter, Instagram or Facebook between midnight and 5am, half the folks are bitching about this monster called Insomnia. The other half belong to the Sleep Police, asking daft questions such as, "Do you ever sleep at all?" without any sense of irony about also being up.The first time I discovered just how precious sleep was, I was 12 years old and I had just been shipped off to Catholic boarding school in Vryheid. Like everything else, sleep was rationed. At 9pm it was lights out and at strictly 5am you would hear the dreaded church tower bell go "Gong! Gong!", closely followed by a portable, miniature version going "Tingleley!". This bell was in the hand of our head boy, Cassius, who'd simultaneously chirp, "Wake up, sleepy heads! You think this is a hotel?"I used to have daydreams about seeing him just about to reach for that annoying sleep interrupter, standing there with a Stetson on my head, matchstick in the corner of my mouth and a 3.57 Magnum in my hand, going, "Do you feel lucky punk? Well, do ya? Go ahead - make my day".One bitterly cold winter morning in Grade 9 my friend Zama Buthelezi was woken by the onset of hypothermia. His covers must have fallen off during the night. He covered himself and just as he was snuggling in, the tower bell sounded. As the then head boy, James, tugged at his covers I heard Zama go, "But I was robbed of sleep by the blankets!", to no avail.I bet we've all experienced similar nights. You know those nights when you toss and turn all night? You keep your eyes closed tight in the hope that you can hoodwink your brain into believing that it's asleep. At 1am your bed mate (and I'm not naming names here) starts snoring louder than a goods train bringing coal from Emalahleni. At 3am you hear the dogs howling at the moon. At 4am you hear one of the kids go to the bathroom, return to bed and immediately start snoring and you curse the lucky bugger. At around 5.45am, you doze off into the most beautiful, deep sleep. And then the alarm clock goes at 6 because it's time to prepare the well-rested kids for school.The flip-side is, of course, those nights you sleep so peacefully that you wake up thinking it must be 6 o'clock only to discover - yippee! - it's 4am and you have another two hours to go. Real men like chick flicks tooI bet there are people reading who just cannot identify. Everybody surely knows those irritating people who can sleep on demand. I went to school with a guy called Vuyo who could sleep any time, anywhere. One morning the fellows lifted his bed with him sleeping on it and dumped it outside in the forecourt of the dormitories in -3 C weather. All he did was cover his head with his blankets and continue purring contentedly like an overfed Siamese tomcat.But I know one situation that turns even the worst insomniac into a bona fide sleepyhead: university exam time. During that two- to three-week period, as soon as you sit down at your study desk, your head just wants to rest on your arms. I remember walking around like a zombie fantasising about how, as soon as I wrote my last paper at noon, I'd be going straight to bed. Come the day, I'd be that guy playing snooker and guzzling Castle Lagers until 4am.I cannot wait until I'm 106 years old and I don't need to sleep more than five hours a day. This sleeping my way through one-third of my life is not fun. Recently, after a typically difficult, insomniac night I finally dozed off around 6am. At 7.30am I was woken by a missed call from the fellow who does the garden. I got up, got dressed, went to open for him, chatted to him for a while about pruning the bushes next to the bathroom window, handed him the gate remote and went back to bed. Two minutes later, I was woken up by a missed call from him. He was still outside waiting for me to open for him. The getting-up sequence had occurred in my dreams after I'd fallen asleep again.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo