Neil McKenzie, who late last month announced his retirement from cricket, will assume the role of batting consultant at Cricket South Africa (CSA) and his ambit will include running the rule over the Proteas. Toyana has stars in his eyes"It's a bit like my career. I'll bat where they need me," McKenzie responded in typical quirky fashion when asked what exactly he would be required to do."CSA wants me to work with the main team, travel with them which includes the T20 World Cup. I will help out where else they need me," said McKenzie.The Sunday Times understands that McKenzie will complete the requisite paperwork once he returns from the United Arab Emirates where he is playing the Masters Champions League (MCL).It is no secret that the Proteas are in need of a batting coach and McKenzie, who played in 58 tests and who boasts a healthy average across all three formats, has the right credentials."I've played in the middle-order when the ball is reverse swinging, I've opened in South Africa and Australia, as well as India and Bangladesh where it is good to bat up front."I've played a lot away from home so I think I can identify with a number of batsmen."I'm not a genius and I'm not going to try to change anyone."I've got to earn the different batters' trust and respect. That is the toughest part about getting into coaching."Moreover, McKenzie has had to find the mental strength to process spectacular highs and lows at test level. The current inexperienced crop can only benefit from the yarns he will no doubt spin.Warner, Marsh set up decider against Kiwis"I was slightly older and knew my game a lot better," he said about his return to the test side in 2008 after a four-year hiatus."I think the most enjoyable period was the last two years. The challenge of opening required a different mindset."The first time around I was young."I scored runs but not big hundreds. I'm not a natural opener but I averaged just under 50 for those two years."Although McKenzie, who turned 40 last November, is currently playing in the hit-and-giggle MCL in the United Arab Emirates, he called time on his decorated career last month.In his last first-class game for the Lions last season, family and friends made up the bulk of the crowd as he scored 203 not out as the Lions roared to domestic four-day honours at the Wanderers.Although he was available to play in the limited overs formats this season, he was deemed too old."It took the wind out of my sails to be honest. Look, the Lions have always treated me really well. I've always loved my time at the Wanderers."McKenzie will get a chance to say thanks and goodbye at a golf day in his honour on March 7 at the Wanderers golf club.