I refer to an article that appeared in that credible source, The Daily Voice, earlier this month. There was a picture of Gabby's husband, Amien Ajam, 66, with the headline "Have you slept with this man?" and instructions that if you had, and you could prove it, to SMS the word CHEATER to the number provided.It was an attempt, once and for all, by Amien Ajam to prove to his wife that he is not cheating on her.Some may see Amien putting himself under this kind of public scrutiny as the ultimate romantic gesture. A Valentine's coup. Like the time John Cusack stood with a boom box over his head, playing In Your Eyes, in the movie Say Anything.Perhaps years of dating have made me cynical, but I have a different opinion.Facebook's "it's complicated" status was meant for relationships like thisGabby's suspicions that Amien was cheating began with a series of intercepted "visit me" and "please call your future wife" texts. Compounded by late night phone calls from someone who just breathed heavily.Dear Gabby, a public poll isn't necessary, neither is a massive romantic gesture - there are only two possible explanations for these occurrences. Either there's a poltergeist in your home, or your husband's cheating. An exorcism is called for. Either exorcise yourself or him from the house, your choice.Question is, how do you prove you shagged someone? Unless he has a birthmark the shape of baby Jesus on his left buttock, or shouts out the Greek alphabet when he climaxes.Sure it's possible Amien isn't cheating, and it's simply as he claims, someone is trying to break up his marriage because they're jealous of his young wife. But it's far more likely he simply got one after-hours blowjob too many, and now it's payback time. In my experience, where there's sex-smoke there's fire.I don't know why we cheat and lie about it. It's a question that's been much on my mind lately. Are we not meant to be monogamous? Many species aren't. Or perhaps it's because it feels so damn good in the moment that the long-term consequences melt away. Or maybe we don't think we'll get caught. What being sent posts about Punani bread says about youI once dated a guy for months and only discovered he had a daughter after he dumped me. You hear stories of men with families in different towns. And a friend of a friend put her eggs on ice and the day before her in vitro, learnt her husband had gotten another woman pregnant.You may wonder why I'm writing about all this romantic doom and gloom on Valentine's Day? I see it as a precautionary tale. Perhaps today is the perfect opportunity to ensure that you love the one you're with, and are with the one you love, and are being honest about the whole shebang, otherwise really, what's the point?And if you're considering cheating (whatever your gender), instead of thinking with your dick, rather think with your bollocks. Because it takes big balls to speak the truth, but if you don't, know that it always outs in the end. Whether it's in The Daily Voice or not. And then it's those same bollocks of yours on the chopping block. Use them or lose them.Follow the author of this article, Paige Nick, on Twitter @paigen or e-mail her at amillionmilesfromnormal@gmail.com