Often we hear of footballers with uncertain futures, while clubs ponder exercising the option for a further year or more. Recently Mamelodi Sundowns defender Wayne Arendse told Times Media his contract expired at the end of June but, with four months to go, he was still waiting for the club to inform him whether they were keeping him beyond then.Fifa's rule on contracts is clear: "A professional shall only be free to conclude a contract with another club if his contract with his present club has expired or is due to expire within six months."But what happens when a club can exercise an option four months or even less before the contract expires?Mike Makaab, one of the country's top intermediaries, has been in the job for close to two decades and he explained the pros and cons of the option."One must understand that an option is a contract, which is one term or maybe more of the agreement to be exercised or fulfilled and normally by one party. An option ordinarily is always for one of the two parties; the club or the player. Sometimes a player may say I want an option."On the other hand, you may find that the option exists with the club saying 'we want an option for a further year provided all the material terms and conditions of the extension via an option are contained in that option'. And provided the parties agree that it is an irrevocable option, then it is definitely enforceable in law."When an option is not enforceable is when it is vague, so when the material terms and conditions of that option are not included in the option."For example, a club says 'we have an option to extend the contract by a further year provided we exercised that in writing on or before the 30th of April 2016 ... The salary related to the option to be negotiated'. Then there is no option, because there is no material term."So on the 30th of April the club says 'I'm happy to give you R32 000' and the footballer says 'No, I want R132 000'. Then, unfortunately, you don't have an agreement ... So an option has to be absolutely clear," he explained.Makaab says an option should be exercised sooner rather than later, at least six months before the expiry of the contract. In that case if the footballer's current club decides not to take the option he would have time to search for other employment."Look, let's be honest. You will find that with the majority of our options we insist that the option is exercised six months prior to the end of the contract. Ordinarily, that's what we would advise players to do because then if the club doesn't exercise the option then in the transfer window period prior to your contract terminating, you are entitled to sign a pre-contract with any club of your choice," he said."My advice to players and agents in this industry is to ensure that if there is an option that option is lodged with the [original] contract with the Premier Soccer League because it protects the player."In fact the PSL should insist on that, because then there are no grey areas. We have to make sure that in most instances we end up with a fair deal. I don't have to tell you that in life the only deals that have longevity are deals that are fair."