ITALYFounded in Europe in 1221, Santa Maria Novella is one of the oldest perfumeries and pharmacies in the world. Now based in Florence, Italy, the pharmacy was founded by Dominican friars who were developing herbal remedies in the monastery, producing skin products such as almond paste and rose-water. One of the brand's best -known products is its potpourri. The pomegranate-shaped terracotta vase is baked in pomegranate essential oils and gradually diffuses a gentle, earthy scent.In the 1500s, Catherine de' Medici, the queen consort of France, joined the fan club and regularly used the bergamot and citrus-scented water, which the pharmacy named Water of the Queen. Today it's known as Santa Maria Novella Acqua di Colonia, R1450 for 100ml, and has become the brand's most popular scent. They have a multitude of different scents to buy. So why not visit a store in the cobbled streets of De Waterkant in Cape Town (or Florence, if you fancy).ANCIENT EGYPTAncient Egyptians were some of the first to accentuate eyes with the kohl-winged liner look, dramatically enhancing almond-shaped eyes. Reportedly made from ground stones and minerals such as copper ore (not quite ophthalmologist tested in those days), the makeup also served as protection against sun and wind. And to add lustre to lips and cheeks? Red ochre, like an old-school version of Benefit Benetint. Think Elizabeth Taylor in Cleopatra: heavily black-lined lids and blue and green eyeshadows, mimicking the malachite the Egyptians are said to have used. Bold and graphic!</img>British actress Elizabeth Taylor (1932-2011) in a publicity still issued for the film, 'Cleopatra', 1963. Image: Silver Screen Collection/Getty ImagesBritish actress Elizabeth Taylor (1932-2011) in a publicity still issued for the film, 'Cleopatra', 1963. Image: Silver Screen Collection/Getty ImagesGet the look with these beauty buys: Benefit Benetint, R385. Our modern-day cheek tint. Chanel Stylo Yeux Waterproof in Fervent Blue (from the LA Sunrise Collection), R370. Use this instead of the usual black for a bolder, brighter lined eye. Essence Smokey 2-in-1 Khol Liner, R48. The cone shape makes it easy to apply and smudge. Chanel Illusion D'Ombre in Ocean Light (from the LA Sunrise Collection), R475. A creamy texture that's vivid and rich in pigment. . Rimmel Scandal-Eyes Gel Eyeliner, R110, to paint on that winged liner.FRANCEThe French have long been dousing themselves in eau de parfum (with the region of Grasse considered the centre of perfumery) and thermal spa water from around the French Alps. Uriage is one such brand founded on a spring by the Belledonne mountains back in 1823, with its "healing" waters dating as far back as Roman times. The impressive water takes 75 years to reach the earth's surface, picking up minerals such as calcium, manganese, copper, zinc and magnesium along the way. The process makes the water's composition similar to the body's natural fluid (think tears and plasma) and soothes some respiratory and inflammatory skin conditions.Closer to home, you can buy cans of the thermal water to spritz on hot summer skin. Uriage Thermal Spa Water, R85 for 50ml and R140 for 150ml, is perfect for cooling you down instantly - just the thing to keep handy for a heatwave. The world of makeup brings us Bourjois and its tiny baked pots of cheek colour. The brand was founded in 1863 by actor Joseph-Albert Ponsin, who developed makeup that wasn't as thick and cakey as the standard of the time for actresses. Later, Alexander-Napoleon Bourjois pushed the development of the brand (and a name change) and in 1912 created the brand's famous pastel blushes, which have since become so popular that six million pots are sold annually. Bourjois Little Round Pot, R126, is relaunching this month; the tried-and-tested formula is still a winner.</img>The traditional makeup of a geisha. Image: iStockThe traditional makeup of a geisha. Image: iStockJAPANIn Japan, the ancient beauty routine of geishas is based on the famous book Miyakofuzoku Kewaiden (which translates as "Capital Beauty and Style Handbook") and dates back to 1813. Part of the definitive look comprises porcelain-white makeup covering the face and neck, called oshiroi, made from a blend of zinc and titanium dioxide, a combination that also acts as a sunscreen. Tatcha, a modern Japanese skincare brand, encompasses the simple steps and guidelines from the same handbook, using natural ingredients such as rice bran, camellia oil and green tea in its products.In contrast, Shiseido, founded in 1872 by Arinobu Fukuhara, was Japan's first Western-style cosmetics brand. Its most iconic product to date? Eudermine, a skin-revitaliser lotion that is still sold in its Serge Lutens-designed bottle.USATurns out that Mabel in Maybelline was a real woman who mixed coal with Vaseline (hence the "-line") and applied it to lashes to make them look black and thick. Her brother, Tom Lyle Williams, saw a business opportunity and in 1917 refined the idea and launched the first modern mascara - Maybelline Cake. Fast-forward a few decades and you have a brand with offerings that extend to foundation, blush and, most importantly, any kind of mascara you can imagine. The distinctive green and pink mascara called Great Lash is the brand's most recognisable product with one selling every few seconds. Maybelline Lash Sensational Mascara in Washable Black, R145, is one of our newest favourites to lengthen lashes.