"As a kid my grandfather always used to get tickets, but my mother did not want me to go. She said I was too young to go. It was a bit rough back then [at the stadium], so she was protecting me," said the Kaizer Chiefs winger, who enjoyed watching former Amakhosi midfielder Thabo Mooki."I told her that one day I would play in that game."In less than a week, Twala will feature in the Soweto derby in a Nedbank Cup last-32 match at FNB Stadium, and the man who has scored two goals since joining Amakhosi from Chippa United last month will be hoping to eliminate his former club in the first round.It's been eight years since the death of his mother, who passed on when Twala was writing matric final exams, and the 25-year-old often wishes his mother was around to see him play for one of the big clubs in SA.He does, however, have his father to watch him play, though Twala's not quite sure what side his old man is on now because he is an Orlando Pirates fan. Twala, by the way, grew up supporting Pirates like his father."My mother passed on in 2008. It was very difficult for me because I was writing my matric exams. It was challenging to concentrate, but I passed with exemption. Luckily I had a lot of support from my family and Augusto Palacios [his youth coach at Orlando Pirates]. I wish she was around to see that I have had the opportunity to represent both Chiefs and Pirates. LVG blows his top again over Jose rumours"My father, Sizwe Twala, jumped for joy when he heard that I would be joining Chiefs. He is quite reserved, but he was the total opposite."He was loud. I think he will go with blood more than anything else in the Soweto derby, but you never know," Twala laughed.Twala's father may be a huge football fan, but it was his mother who insisted that he go for trials at Wits University when he was 11."She's the one who wanted me to go to Wits, so that I can get exposure and not get exposed to life on the streets [in Diepkloof]."I had a cousin who was playing for Wits and because my family was interested in me pursuing a career in football, I went there for trials and I was selected."It was not long before he caught the attention of the Buccaneers."We were playing against Pirates. It was the league decider for under-12s."We beat them 2-1 and I scored both goals and then I joined Pirates. Foxes out to keep nose in front"I had a good time at Pirates."It was interesting and a dream to go through the development."Twala, however, could not make a mark in the first team at Pirates and was loaned out to FC AK, Chippa and Golden Arrows before they let him go for good.Pirates could live to regret that decision when the clubs face off on Saturday.Ahead of the Soweto derby, Twala believes the game has not lost its spark even though some might disagree."It is still exciting. It differs with generations. The game has been modified, it is exciting."After the goalless draw in the Telkom Knockout semifinal between the Soweto giants, the supporters will be hoping for a cup match that will not put them to sleep.