It's a Marie Kondo-type of thing. You know, the Japanese domestic guru who insists we only keep the things we love absolutely? I love all my clothes, so I thought I'd better wear them. Because what would Marie say?I'm ashamed to say I've not yet finished. I won't tell you when I started or I'd have to kill you. Suffice to say, I long ago passed the Project 333 "be more with less" equilibrium. Like Marie, this lot encourages you to rid yourself of all sartorial baggage. The new ascetics must restrict themselves to a wardrobe of 33 items (accessories and sundries included). Yeah, right!My maximalist experiment has had its fair share of shocking moments. During this period of daily innovation and digging deep into the cupboard, what are the chances of wearing the very same dress as my colleague to a meeting?That time I got fat-shamed on FacebookMr Ikea thinks the world has reached "peak home furnishings" (Steve Howard, the head of sustainability at the Swedish household furnishing behemoth, recently said we don't really need more stuff. None at all). I agree. I can safely say that I have probably reached "peak clothing". I tipped over into peak after the matching-dress incident. A shopping intervention became necessary. It was an important meeting - or so I told myself as I purchased a lovely little dress to take us out of the twin-set situation.The peak-stuff guy says it's mass consumerism at fault and if we carry on buying stuff at this rate, the world, as we know it, will implode. I say, Chanel haute couture 2016. Don't roll your eyes. Yes, I know that the world is probably at peak billionaire right now. The richest 62 billionaires have more cash than half the world's population. All 62 of their wives probably attended last week's haute couture shows in Paris, being the only people able to afford this extreme luxury.So it is not without a sense of irony that I present Karl Lagerfeld's vision as the solution to peak clothing. Haute couture embodies the very idea of Project 333 and Marie Kondo - that you pare down the excess of fast fashion and mad consumerism for something truly special. Objects that have been slowly, carefully made by artisans are the bulwark against our imminent environmental disaster. The Chanel show was all about sustainability - the pi ce de r sistance a coat that looked like it was made of fur, but was really just cotton-wool balls.The trick is to translate this genius into something that more than 1% can access. Because, do the math!