As the third one-day international between South Africa and England was staged in a warm and friendly atmosphere, the introduction of such penalties may have seemed superfluous.The nearest a player came to fisticuffs was when Ben Stokes blew a fuse after one of his own teammates, Adil Rashid, had misfielded. The new Don Voges takes his test average to 100However, this match was staged in front of four official umpires and a match referee. Thousands of spectators at Centurion and millions on TV would have deplored any misbehaviour.The players self-policed - being professional cricketers who would suffer a major loss of earnings if they descended to brawling on the field.It is for the amateur game that Marylebone Cricket Club's (MCC) introduction of these unprecedented powers is intended - and the lower rather than upper reaches.Where the game is umpired by two well-qualified officials, in full possession of their faculties, the players are less likely to consider themselves above the law. Through the ages, bad behaviour on the cricket field has usually resulted from poor umpiring.The ethos of cricket, moreover, has not so much changed as reversed in the last generation. It used to be a game of defensiveness and fear, when the only attacking was done by the village blacksmith. But in the white-ball era, the emphasis is on aggression in all respects. T20: The game-changersSo we may lament the times we live in, and the erosion of respect for authority in society as a whole. But the MCC has to do something to arrest the quantifiable increase in physical violence on the field.Feedback from New Zealand's experiment is encouraging. In the Northern Districts association, these new powers are already being trialled - and serving as a deterrent.Players were sent off initially, but once they realised how damaging it was to their side, they began to heed the umpires' warnings.New Zealand Cricket has also added the telling observation about the national captain as a role model.Brendon McCullum's influence has permeated through the sport down to the grassiest roots, so a cricket match in New Zealand is a contest of skills, not a slanging and sledging match.This experiment is an admission that the Code of Laws issued in 2000, with their preamble about the Spirit of Cricket, has failed to uphold fair play: "It is the responsibility of the captain to take action where required."But whereas the village captain used to be the Rector or Squire, it is very difficult for 20-year-old Pete to stand back, risk unpopularity, and tell his mates to cool it.As trials unfold - whether in games organised by MCC or in leagues where officials want to join in - procedural questions will arise. Waugh hits back at Warne as 17-year-old grudge surfacesIf, at the bottom of the food chain in a game without two independent umpires, a player taking a turn with the white coat decides to send off a member of the fielding side without due reason, should he be allowed to do so? Or will both umpires have to agree? Or if they agree that a penalty is required but cannot agree on which one, will the lighter be applied?But these are details.Whisper it not to WG Grace in the eternal hall of fame, the new measures are necessary. In fact, if he were playing, he would likely be the first to get sent off.The Daily Telegraph