Because it is such an exotic and tropical fruit, the granadilla or passion fruit easily fits the image of holiday indulgence and romantic interludes.That's fine, although the real origin of the name is the flower, which reminded the first Western observers of Christ's crown of thorns, hence "passion" flower, in an older meaning of the word.My last Passiflora edulis was so passionate about growing that I had to kill it as it had covered a side of my house by using the burglar bars of the kitchen, bathroom and my bedroom as its playground. The dim rooms soon became more unpractical than remotely romantic or passionate.I have now planted another to cover a pergola where it can drop fruit on us to its heart's content, because once you have had a vine you cannot bring yourself to pay for the fruit again. 4 creative ways to cook with granadillasThey are subtropical vines which do best in Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal, but they are easy to grow in all but the coldest-winter areas. There are a number of varieties, but the purple granadilla is almost exclusively grown here.You can easily grow them from seed taken from a bought fruit, but probably best to just buy a plant. Once you have one, you will find them coming up around your garden, presumably spread by compost.Plant them in well-composted and fertilised soil in a deep hole. They need a lot of water but hate being waterlogged, so avoid compacted soil and clay. Remove any side shoots and train the main one up a bamboo stick to where you want it to ramble - a fence, trellis or pergola. It will need space, lots of it.It's best to plant granadillas in early spring, but you can do so at any time, and hope for the first fruit within nine months. The main crop of fruit is from November to January, but is often extended almost into winter. Commercial farmers trash the plants after three or four years but at home you can keep them longer, up to six or seven years.Pick granadillas in the morning and when they turn purple, not when they are older or even wrinkled. They are still edible then, but lose some flavour. If there is a surplus, you can freeze the pulp, which can be used in anything from ice cream and pavlova to cakes and cheesecakes.