With playing time as rare as a hen's teeth, the striker hastens to demand answers on why he has to position his posterior in the dugout of Orlando Pirates."You don't confront a coach in a bad spirit. You confront him with concerns," he says.A handful of starts and eight appearances off the bench qualify as serious concern.Some tough choices for players' contracts"I always work hard at training and in friendly matches. It is natural that I ask him why I'm not playing," says Majoro.Tinkler responds: "It is no secret his work rate needs to improve and he recognises that. Here at Pirates, we expect everybody to work hard. We defend with 10 men and attack with 10. He needs to adapt to that and bring it to his game."There's no bad blood between the two but clear professional tension.One can read between the lines that Majoro feels he deserves more time on the pitch than the bench."He would tell me he has tactics. That's what coaches do. He'll say for this game I'm gonna go with so and so because tactically this is what we're looking for."When a coach talks to you in terms of tactics and technical what what, you're in no position to argue. You just have to listen and try harder."That extra effort resulted in a goal in November when Pirates emerged 2-1 winners away at Ajax Cape Town.More game time on the horizon, the University of Johannesburg radiology graduate thought to himself. But it was not to be. That 22nd minute strike remains his only goal of the season in the league."My job is to fight to be in the team regardless of the obstacles or decisions that are made. It is a very difficult thing," says Majoro. "They say you must try to fight the battles that you think you can win. If you can't, you might just as well let it go. That's been the case with me, I've been trying to push and push. But even if you can go to stats you can see the number of games I've started visa-a-vis the ones I did from the bench. I don't think I started more than five and came off the bench eight times."I've only scored one goal in the league."Four goals - the other three came in the Caf Confederation Cup campaign that culminated in a final defeat to Etoile du Sahel of Tunisia - is a measly return for one who slid down the pecking order behind Kermit Erasmus (who has joined Rennes in French Ligue 1) and Thamsanqa Gabuza."He's always asking why he's not playing and that's the right thing to do," says Tinkler. "And with Kermit gone, he needs to step up to that space, that role needs to be filled by him."There's a perception that Majoro was pipped to a starting position because of the duo's high work rate.The insinuation is that he is lazy, to which he responds: "If I'm lazy I would not have scored over 10 goals a season, if I'm lazy that means I'm playing against lazy defenders. Each and every defence I play against is lazy."It is just a belief. If Kermit was lazy he would not be overseas."People forget that there are different types of players. You don't necessarily have to use your energy by running around so that you can appear to be putting on work."I'm a person that thinks on the field while trying to make intelligent runs where it is going to hurt the opponents most."Majoro turns 30 in August and became a father to a baby daughter Hayleigh seven months ago.He says Hayleigh and her mother Dhivia, who is studying her masters in law at the University of Johannesburg (UJ), are his support structure in these trying times. "I take solace in them being around me. They are my support structure when I think of giving up. I don't wanna be like that."Fatherhood brings a lot of maturity and responsibility in one. You can't live a reckless life. If I were to die tomorrow, I would be leaving my child vulnerable. I'm a breadwinner, her mother is doing her masters in law at UJ. I have to be there for my child. Having them in my life has changed the way I see life. I live with more purpose and want to achieve more."Those achievements include running a mobile X-Ray business with business partner Jackson Leboge."We are currently working with the department of health doing TB screening for prisoners at the Kgosi Mampuru [II] Correctional Services."The footballer also has a fashion label, Ballo-Joro."We specialise in sports apparel like track pants, T-shirts, sweaters and caps."We're encountering problems with suppliers. I have people that I work with that design for me. One of them is Thabang, and Jackson and Dhivia are also part and parcel of it. She'll kill me if you don't mention her."Our interview ends as he finishes a post-training plate of pap, beef stew, fish, juice and watermelon.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za