Nerds like me will recognise the first two lines as being Frank Costanza s rallying cry in the Festiv us episode of Seinfeld. A few months ago I wrote another I have many problems with you people column.Most recognised the tongue firmly glued to my cheek, but a few, including a comedian I met for the first time at the Talk Radio 702 studios during my weekly chat with Azania Mosaka, were totally outraged at being referred to as you people . Loyiso Gola, who was with said comedian operating a comic career with a humour permit, sounded almost apologetic as he tried to limit the damage.I blame my mother for my propensity to lump people together. She would walk into the lounge while I was trying to catch up on my McGyver viewing and yell, Ave ningamavila kodwa nina zingane zalayikhaya! (You guys are such a lazy bunch!). I d be surprised because my room was spic and span but she d point out the state of the kitchen, the bathroom, all the other bedrooms. When I protested that none of these was under my direct control, she would retort; Zifa ngamvunye . That s Zulu Higher Grade for Let s lump everyone together . Supporting the little guy can be a little exhaustingI have adopted my mother s system with my midgets. I think it imparts a really good sense of collective guilt in the children. About everything. All the time. We re Catholic after all, damn it. This prepares them for a life in which you arrive at the Mozambique border and you re punished for the crime of being a South African crossing the border while xenophobic.So, are you ready? Here goes:1. You people crumple banknotes.You fork out a crisp R100 note at the Pick n Pay kiosk and what you get back in change is R53.60 in two 20s and a 10 that look like used hankies fished out by a hay fever sufferer who sweeps floors in a flour mill. I don t get this. Why do you scrunch notes? Are you people aware that our notes are called Randelas because they bear the face of a global icon and the nearest thing we ve had to a living saint, Mr Nelson Mandela? What would possess anyone to sommer crumple that face? If you ve ever used a minibus taxi you learn to spot the regular culprits. You will be forgiven for thinking it s the magogo types who fish notes from their brassieres. I would understand that. After all, if magogos didn t use their bras as purses, where would they stash money away from thieving grandchildren? But no, they are not the worst culprits. It is almost inevitably the impeccably clean fellow nin a pinstripe suit. He collects money from people in his row and places the coins on top of the notes. And then crumple! I wonder if all you Crumplestiltskins know that each time you wrinkle a banknote, an angel loses its wings in heaven?2. You people straddle lanes and queues.Oh, this is a pet peeve of mine. Why can t you people pick a lane and stick with it? And why do you stand halfway between two queues, hedging your bets and then when I try to step forward when it s my turn, you suddenly leap in front of me? And this is the same thing you do when I m driving patiently towards the Gilloolys interchange. There is always that driver in a purple Hyundai who seems unsure whether they re going towards Pretoria or they re headed south because they re indicating right but their left wheels are on the solid barrier line. At the last moment, they hurl themselves in front of you, forcing you to brake violently and spill your coffee.3. You people use stupid abbreviations in your texts.Are you one of those people who has to end every single text with LOL ? Stop it right now. Why are you people LOLing your way through life? Why is this necessary? And how is nyc an abbreviation of nice ? If nyc is short for nice , please tell me how I m supposed to abbreviate New York City? And why is everyone telling me tenk u ? if I do something for you, please thank me. I don t want to be tenked . And if you want to know how I m doing, don t hud me. I don t want to be hud ed. The Zulu word for doing a number two while suffering from diarrhoea is huda . Do you see where I m going with this?Excuse me while I yawn: Ndumiso Ngcobo on Mbeki's gripes 4. You people leave foreign objects at the urinals.OK, this is obviously the male half of you people . There are few things more annoying than being pressed, entering a public toilet and, as you unzip, spotting a pink, chewed-up Chappies in there. And now you have to be that guy unsure whether to aim at it or avoid it. The only thing I like to aim at is when they have put those ice cubes in there and I m playing that game called, See how many ice cubes you can melt . And don t get me started on the werewolves in our midst who shed hair into the urinals. They started the Gillette company for a reason, you Philistines.5. You people use meaningless clich s.I m referring to clich s such as the poorest of the poor . What about those who are simply poor? Who is looking out for them? And then you have as the crow flies . Stop it. That s just too much pressure on the crow to fly in a straight line. What if it s a female crow and it sees a Bruno Mars lookalike crow 36 northeast? Now the crow has to behave like a straight crow when, in fact, it might be wanting to zigzag towards love.This is only the second you people letter in my 10-part series designed to correct you people. Brace yourselves.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo