Since Adams took over the coaching reins at the Cape Cobras - the same provincial side he played for in a career spanning from 1995 to 2008 - he has arguably been the most successful local coach.Today, his side will face the Highveld Lions in the final of the Momentum One-Day Cup. This will be the fifth consecutive time the 39-year-old coach's side plays in the decider of the 50-overs competition - the fourth under his mentorship since taking over in 2012. "I've been taking every step as it comes," the soft-spoken Adams told Sunday Times."My success as a player, and also having faced a lot of challenges too, gave me the hunger to want to succeed. I just needed to make sure that I was not distracted from my goals. Once I have my eye on where I want to go, the rest will follow."In his first two seasons at the helm, the Cobras shared the one-day title with the Lions (2012/13) and Titans (2013/14). Last year the Cobras were defeated by the Titans in the final.The trophy cabinet at Newlands has also been filled with two Sunfoil Series crowns and last season's Ram Slam T20 cup under Adams.The Cape side's eyes are now firmly on a triumph in today's clash against Geoffrey Toyana's Lions, who defeated the Warriors in the play-off match at the Wanderers on Wednesday.Adams has the full backing of the Western Province board."After having been a player at the top level, he came in as a very fresh coach. He created a wonderful team environment which has played a big part in the success that has been achieved," Western Province president Beresford Williams said. "He is an energetic young man who knows how to get the best out of the players."Because of that, the side has managed to perform consistently well. What I have found most incredible is how he finds a balance between the senior players and youngsters."The seniors have really come to the party, while we have seen the talent of the youngsters. He has managed to put together a great combination. We are confident that should the team continue to play as a collective we will win the trophy."Adams and Toyana have a long-standing friendship since their playing days in the early '90s.Toyana has enjoyed his own share of success with the Lions.The 41-year-old said: "Paul and I are very close. Whenever we play against each other we ensure that we spend time catching up and chatting about how our jobs are going."[Today] all of that will be put aside until after the match. We want to make ourselves proud as the Lions, and make Johannesburg proud."Unfortunately for the Lions, Proteas' Temba Bavuma (batsman) and Eddie Leie (spinner), were on Friday declared unfit to play because of injuries.