Feo Sachs sent a delightful rhyme containing the words souffl , duvet, croquet, sachet, sundae, cabaret and gourmet.I could argue about whether it is considered pure rhyme to match only the ending of a word (which would mean orange rhymes with binge instead of with nothing) but I won't, because I want to talk about pretentiousness. Politicians should speak in rhyming verseTim Couzens and Michael Stephen both insist that beret rhymes with ferret - or rather that beret should rhyme with ferret and would rhyme with ferret if we did not insist on saying "be-ray". (Tim suggests that in South African it would also rhyme with "carrot".)Their hypothesis is that if we say "Paris" instead of "Pa-ree", then all other French words adopted into English families should be made to conform.The word "beret" does - of course - come from the French b ret, but it did not begin life on Gallic heads. Its roots go back to the Medieval Latin birretum, out of which grew not only the felt circle that should be worn only in parliament and never while on holiday in France, but also the biretta, a square cap worn by the Roman Catholic clergy.Biretta is pronounced exactly the way it looks. The Italians are big on spoken consonants and would never, ever, say "bi-ray-a". As an aside, bruschetta (toast rubbed with garlic) is pronounced "bruise-ketta", not bruise-shetta".But back to French. In some cases we have overcome the pretentiousness (prefrenchiousness?) of French pronunciation. It is perfectly acceptable to say valet to rhyme with ballot instead of ballet, and most English speakers say foyer to rhyme with lawyer instead of "foy-ay".Food terms, however, remain a bone of contention. We have taken the French filet and turned it into fillet with the "t" loudly overcooked, but in gourmet circles a tenderloin steak is still referred to as filet mignon, pronounced "fee-lay meen-yon".Is this pretentious? If it is, and if we desire only humble unpretentiousness, then gourmet should be gore-mett instead of gore-may and sachet should be satch-ett instead of sashay. The painful truth about agony auntsEntr e would be pronounced "entry" but that wouldn't stop half the English-speaking world from confusing it with a starter when it is the main course. Then again, if we are going to change the French pronunciations of words we might as well go the whole porc and mess with their meanings as well. Pronounce entr e "entry" and it really should be the dish eaten directly after saying "bon appetite".The anglicisation of French words might please those who shun affectation, but it would also cause confusion. Imagine an election day when no one knew whether to put their vote into the ballot box or the ballet box.Moving on to wine, if we decide that cabernet must be pronounced "cabinet" (to match its older sister claret) instead of "cab-er-neigh", how will we know what wine critics mean when they praise a "woody little cabinet"?Maybe, once it has finished converting inconsonant French syllables into lingua-alveolar plosives (what phoneticians call "t" sounds), the House Committee on Pretentious Activities could turn its attention to wine snobs and we would no longer have to suffer a woody little anything.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1