The winger, who scored 15 goals for National First Division club Cape Town All Stars last season, is not young, as common perception would have it.Memela, 28, was handed just a fourth game, and first start in Bucs' 3-1 win against Mpumalanga Black Aces in Nelspruit last week when he delivered a performance worthy of man of the match.2802twalaA Kaizer Chiefs fan as a youngster, he hopes he has done enough to have earned a run in his first official Soweto derby in Saturday's Nedbank Cup first round match against Amakhosi."Some people said I was on fire against Aces," Memela said. "For the coach to start me after so long in the grandstand gave me confidence. But I knew if I didn't perform this chance might never come again."It has been a very long path for Memela to live the dream at Pirates, though it didn't help also being down in the pecking order to experienced wingers Thabo Rakhale, Sifiso Myeni and Mpho Makola.As a 19-year-old from Mbekweni township in Paarl - which has also produced PSL stars Terror Fanteni and Gareth Ncaca - he landed his first professional contract in Ajax Cape Town's reserves, then spent a year with the first team, never playing. LVG blows his top again over Jose rumoursHe almost gave up the game in the lower leagues."I moved to Chippa United in the NFD but was sent to their Vodacom League reserve team [Peace Makers FC] for a year, where I was top scorer."Chippa wanted to offer me a contract but loaned me to All Stars. I decided to rather pack my bags and sign with All Stars."I sat down and said to myself, 'Where did I go wrong?' It was two years since I had a PSL contract, now I was playing Vodacom League. I thought, 'Do I just leave football and do what my mother always said, study?'."I was so close to it. I said, 'I always knew it wouldn't be easy.' Gareth Ncaca came on the scene when he was young, got lost, then made it for Sundowns and Bay United. Maybe it can happen for me too'."I decided to focus at All Stars. I knew they wanted to win the league. Let me start there and forget the past."All Stars won the Western Cape Vodacom League in 2012-13, but lost out to Baroka FC in the promotion play-offs. The following season they were promoted. Foxes out to keep nose in front"I had PSL clubs chasing me. But you can go to a PSL club from the Vodacom and they will be suspicious of playing you. I needed to prove myself in the NFD first. I scored 15 goals and Pirates came along."Memela impressed Bucs coach Eric Tinkler in training so quickly the wing was included in the Pirates squad that eventually reached the Caf Confederation Cup final, although he didn't play."It made me feel welcome. I looked back at playing Vodacom League two years before - now I was travelling in Africa with Pirates."He hopes to play in the derby. "I came on as a sub in the Black Label Cup. It's a feeling you will never forget."I know it's going to happen for me at Pirates. It's just the beginning now."When your career's going up and down it seems like it will never come."sports@timesmedia.co.za