But Toyana is modest about his role in their success. If nothing else, his humility is shared by one of his prot g s, Proteas sensation Kagiso Rabada, who tried his best to deflect the glory after taking 13 wickets against England in the final test, claiming he was assisted by his teammates.Warner, Marsh set up decider against KiwisThe 20-year-old Rabada, who has taken the international cricket scene by storm, is one of many who have emerged from the "GT" cricket factory.Temba Bavuma, Hardus Viljoen, Chris Morris, Stephen Cook, Eddie Leie and Rabada are all Toyana products who have made their international debuts in the past year. Quinton de Kock and Aaron Phangiso made the leap to the Proteas previously, still under his tutelage."I'm proud of the players, yes," says Toyana, South Africa's first black African top-tier coach.But he shies from the spotlight and heaps praise on his charges."I really felt that those guys who have gone through [to the national team] have played well."A guy like Cook showed as well that he can play and is a proper opener. I'm very happy for him," Toyana said."A guy like Temba [Bavuma] has grown immensely. He's close to cementing his spot in the squad. He just needs a few more good performances."KG [Rabada] is just a star. I'm just so proud of him. I don't think there are words to describe what he's achieved so far."</img>Stephen Cook is one of Geoffrey Toyana's products who have made international debuts in the past 2015 Image: SuppliedStephen Cook is one of Geoffrey Toyana's products who have made international debuts in the past 2015 Image: SuppliedAfter further pressing to draw even the slightest bit of self-gratification from the man, Toyana eventually gave himself a soft pat on the back - briefly."Yes, I'm happy and proud of myself," he grinned before continuing. "And the [Lions] coaching staff.""It's been a tough time for us in terms of being understaffed. It's just me and the old toppie [bowling coach] Gordon [Parsons]. It is tough for us, but we did our work in the winter."As a coaching staff we are proud of the guys and what we have achieved."Toyana, who in his playing days went as far as provincial honours, also played a hand in the development of Proteas spinner Imran Tahir as a semi-professional player, as well as speedster Marchant de Lange, provincial players Mangaliso Mosehle, Lesiba Ngoepe and Tumelo Bodibe in their early playing days.He is not yet done. More players who will reach international cricket are in his production line, ready to be unleashed."A guy who is quite close to making a breakthrough as well is Dwaine Pretorius, who is an all-rounder. I know there is already talk about him at this very moment," the coach said.Not only does Toyana manage to get his charges to reach their full potential, but his management of the players is remarkable. U-19s failure 'is part of development'The former Easterns, Gauteng and Titans cricketer is held in high regard by players who often describe him as a "father figure and friend" and credit him for creating a "family vibe" at the Wanderers.A week ago at the Bullring the respect players have for him was evident.Rabada, Morris and De Kock were posing for photographs in the pink Proteas gear ahead of next weekend's "Pink ODI" in aid of cancer while Toyana put the Lions team through their paces.After they were done, the players exchanged pleasantries with their counterparts.Spotting the coach from the corner of his eye across the field, Rabada took off his cap, ran to give Toyana a long and warm embrace as the coach offered words of congratulations.Morris, who now plays for the Titans, followed suit and the script played itself out again.The only thing left now is for "GT" to offer his services to the national team as coach.Toyana will certainly be a candidate for the top job after current coach Russell Domingo's tenure comes to an end.sports@timesmedia.co.za