1. Set out a planThe first step is to assess your garden to understand the space you ll be working with. Just like a professional landscaper, walk around your garden and take note of the soil quality, sun/shade areas, water availability and average wind strength. Make a sketch of the layout. Take photos of other gardens you like or save photos online, to take with you to a nursery with this info they ll be able to advise you what plants and soil you need to buy.2. Save moneyGardening can be an expensive hobby, so you d be wise to save money where you can. A good idea is to buy plants from wholesale nurseries that trade directly to the public this may involve a trip or two out of the city or to grow your plants from seeds. You may be lucky to have green-fingered friends who will give you cuttings from tender plants, and who can advise you on plants that will easily thrive. New garden? 5 important things to consider before you get growing3. Tackle your garden in stagesStart off by clearing the beds of unwanted plants and weeds; lay down the plants you have bought and make sure you are happy with the layout before you plant them. Remember to take into consideration the height of each plant, to create varying levels. Space evenly to allow each plant to fill out the area around it as it grows, and to allow for the future addition of seedlings and groundcover.4. Assess your climate/light levelsAll plants you buy will come with a recommendation for the ideal conditions in which they will thrive. Take note of the light conditions stated for example, full sun, semi-shade/semi-sun and shade. Make sure that the right plants are positioned in the right places.5. Prepare the soilIn order to guarantee the best growing conditions, you need to enrich the mineral content of your soil. The optimal pH level for soil is between 5.5 and 7. If the pH level is below 6, the soil is too acidic and requires ground limestone. If it is above 7.5, the soil is too alkaline, needing soil sulphur. Add organic compost and organic fertiliser to the beds, and lawn dressing to your grass. A thick layer of mulch on your flowerbeds can also help to add nutrients to plants, in addition to insulating the roots of vulnerable plants. Get growing: container gardening for beginners6. Get the right toolsMake sure you allocate enough of your budget to gardening tools. The beginner s gardening toolkit should include a selection of basic tools, including gloves; a hand hoe a double-headed tool that is used for general cultivating; hand pruners designed to cut thin pieces of wood and the stems of perennials; a hand trowel a scoop-shaped metal tool used for digging small holes; a watering hose; and a wheelbarrow.7. Create an indigenous gardenAn indigenous garden will help to retain the natural vegetation of your garden and preserve the overall biodiversity of your area. Indigenous gardens also require far less irrigation than exotic plants, making them water-wise.8. Pick your plantsSunflowers, nasturtiums, marigolds, pansies and fuchsias are all easy-to-grow and affordable plants that will add masses of colour to your flowerbeds. If you re looking for easy-to-grow veg, you can increase your chances of gardening success with carrots, tomatoes, green beans, cucumbers and spinach.