For some time, physicist John Archibald Wheeler was credited with naming this nebulous object. The story goes that he first used the phrase in a 1967 lecture after a fan (or whatever one calls people who stalk scientists) suggested that "black hole" was easier to say than "gravitationally completely collapsed object".In 2013, however, Science News writer Tom Siegfried pointed out that journalist Ann Ewing had used "black hole" in a 1964 issue of the same publication. Digging further, he discovered that even before this physicist Robert Dicke was known for saying lost objects "must have been sucked into the black hole of Calcutta".That was a nasty thing to name a gravitationally completely collapsed object after, even if one can see how it came about - the Black Hole of Calcutta was the tiny dungeon into which 146 British prisoners were crammed after a dispute with the local ruler in 1756. Only 23 survived. Should we ditch the pretentiousness of French pronunciation?Let's talk about more cheerful things, like teenagers. I like talking to teenagers because they tend to say exactly what they think - or the thinking ones do. Hardly any full-fledged adults say what they think, perhaps because they are afraid of being sucked into a vortex of social opprobrium (a commendable word that should be allowed out more).However. Not long ago, an adolescent who hopes to become a scientist told me that studying English would be of no use whatsoever in his chosen field. He didn't see any reason why he shouldn't stop bothering about prepositions and instead devote all his attention to particles.I felt my tolerance collapsing in on itself like an expired star and told him he would need a solid grasp of language in order to communicate his scientific knowledge to others. I don't think he believed me, but a few days later came the announcement of the scientific breakthrough that has enthralled the world even though most of us couldn't tell the sound of a black hole from the whistle of a hedgehog.As far as I understand it, for many years the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory has been building devices that use very long pipes intended to detect gravitational waves - trace vibrations caused by the collision of black holes, if you can imagine such a thing without snapping your mind. Except, until a few weeks ago, no one was sure these waves really existed. Politicians should speak in rhyming verseAstrophysicist Marco Drago, who was manning LIGO when a compressed squiggle appeared on his screen, secured his place in history with the immortal phrase: "It was difficult to understand what to do."It has been even more difficult for scientists to explain a squiggle that might perhaps represent a bumper-bashing between two non-objects a billion years ago. I have been intrigued and impressed by the linguistic skills involved in translating astronomically complex concepts into everyday English while maintaining scientific accuracy.Mainstream media outlets have gone berserk with announcements of gravitational waves being discovered or heard. Scientists have had to do linguistic back-flips to deny these claims, because they are not strictly true.I'm not going to try to explain the subtleties of gravitational wave detection, because I don't understand even the non-subtleties. But I do applaud the appropriately named MIT physicist Alan Lightman, who, when asked to justify the importance of studying these thingies said: "It's the same as justifying ballet."To my young friend who asked me to justify the importance of studying words I would say: "It's the same as justifying cricket."E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1