Why prune? Pruning improves a plant's health and enhances its appearance.When to prune? Prune during the cooler months when plants are still dormant. This will result in a burst of new growth in the spring. Don't over-prune as this reduces the foliage available to protect the plant during winter weather.You need: The basics include secateurs or pruning scissors, a hedge shear, a lopping shear, a hand and pole saw, a ladder and protective gloves. 8 steps to pruning your plants perfectly Basic pruning cuts: Heading back involves cutting a section of a plant to above a bud or side branch. This results in several shoots growing from below the cut, and helps redirect growth to a desired direction and size. It encourages a denser plant, and helps rejuvenate lacklustre growth. Always angle cuts above the bud at 45 degrees.Thinning cuts take entire stems or branches back to their origin or to another branch. It removes unwanted branches, "opening up" a plant to allow light to penetrate to the inner leaves and branches.Pruning shade trees: Establish a good structure of primary branches that will support the tree throughout its lifetime. The primary branches should grow from a single dominant leader (central trunk) that grows upwards. Poor pruning can cause permanent damage to the tree structure, so always use the correct tools and method when pruning young trees.Pruning fruit trees: The first three years are vital in establishing vitality and health. Proper pruning will encourage growth of strong branches that can support heavy loads of fruit. In the first year, start off by removing all side growth from the central stem. This will encourage low branching and a high fruit yield after the first three years. In the second year, identify three to four stems that will give the tree the correct structure, and prune these stems to 75cm, removing remaining growth. In the third year, establish a secondary framework with three shoots growing from the stems chosen the year before, and prune these back to 50cm.