There is just too much evidence to support the notion. When I hang out with my friends at the Keg I don't even flinch at some of the things they say anymore. Never mind that being 44 and still "hanging out" with people is an adequate reason to relegate one to Homo erectus status. Normal adults don't hang out.But my point is that it is perfectly normal for ostensibly mature heterosexual males to say things such as, "You're drinking Flying Fish, dude? Do you want a pair of tits to go with it?" The other day someone in my WhatsApp circles circulated a meme: "Q: What do you say when a man who drives a Mini Cooper gives you a lift? A: Much appreciated, ma'am."Most honest males will acknow-ledge this to be just a normal fact of life over here in Testosteronia. When we take digs at each other we go the "sissy" and "girly man" route. This is presumably because being effeminate resides in the same compartment as being a paedophiliac serial killer in our little brains. 5 reasons why Ndumiso Ngcobo has had it with you people I had these thoughts when I switched on the telly and Sleepless in Seattle was on channel 108 for the 98th time this year. I don't think I have ever been able to switch channels when that movie is on. Thank you for making my point for me by rolling your eyes, Mr Macho Marlboro Man. Yes, you. I can see you.The ironic part is that I caught the movie during a scene in which the character played by Tom Hanks is mocking a female friend who is weepily telling him the plot of the movie An Affair To Remember starring Deborah Kerr and Cary Grant. When she finishes, his first comment is, "That's a chick's movie," and he then goes on to illustrate the absurdity of her tearing up over a movie by pretending to get all emotional over The Dirty Dozen.I have a friend called Siyabonga with whom I share a great love for Quentin Tarantino movies, The Godfather trilogy and pretty much any movie with Robert De Niro and Al Pacino in it. Whenever he's at home and, say, Goodfellas or Inglourious Basterds is on, he will zap a text to me along the lines of, "Check out channel 110." Just last week he sent me a text because Carlito's Way was on. I do the same.But it occurred to me that there is no way I would ever send him a text to let him know that Sleepless in Seattle was on, despite me being obviously enamoured with this chick flick. Or, Lord forbid, Pretty Woman; a movie I have watched more times than my president goes "he he he he he" during his electrifying speeches.Yes, I said it. I cannot tear myself away from Pretty Woman when I see it playing on the telly despite owning a DVD copy. Or Notting Hill. Especially the part where Julia Roberts looks Hugh Grant in the eye and says, "I'm just a girl standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her." (Please give me a minute while I remove something that seems to be stuck in my eye.) Sigh.Why are we like this, my fellow cavemen? Why can't we just own up to the fact that we have this side? Siyabonga and I can easily spend 20 minutes discussing every detail of the opening scene in Inglourious Basterds when Christoph Waltz rides up to the house, drinks the milk and gives his lengthy monologue about rats and Jews. In fact I'd wager that he knows that monologue word for word. Ditto the same actor's monologues in Django Unchained.But I also wager that if I started getting a lump in my throat recounting John Hannah's eulogy in Four Weddings and a Funeral, especially the recital of the WH Auden poem Funeral Blues, specifically the Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone part, I'd be hit with a snide remark about putting on my big girl panties. And yet, knowing the bastard, I'm 99.99% certain that he, too, gets a lump in his throat when he watches it. After all this is the same guy who, in a moment of weakness, 'fessed up to owning several Celine Dion CDs.Excuse me while I yawn: Ndumiso Ngcobo on Mbeki's gripes When I was in high school I was decent at most sports I tried. I even started dabbling in netball, which I found physically challenging and most enjoyable. It was bad enough that I was also an avid tennis player, which earned me jibes about "wearing pretty white shorts" and whatnot. But netball fuelled more direct jibes along the lines of, "Did you strain your vagina during practice today?" I'm ashamed to confess that I buckled and had to tell the girls to count me out.And in mid-January Mrs N splurged out on a spa treatment for us. I thoroughly enjoyed the pampering, especially the pedicure, manicure and facial. Afterwards my face felt like a baby's bottom. And then I made the mistake of sharing this wonderful experience in my high-school mates WhatsApp group. Within a minute I was on the receiving end of jibes about carrying a pack of Always in my girly man-bag.We should all grow up and accept that there is more than one kind of masculinity. A fellow should be able to watch Pretty Woman in his pink T-shirt and silk pyjama shorts, with a box of Kleenex, sipping camomile tea and singing along to It must have been love/But it's over now, without being judged.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo