In ancient Ireland, scores were settled by verbal jousting, where the combatants would come together and fling lines of verse at each other, instead of stones, or leprechauns. This tradition continues in the world of rap, where powerful emotions are expressed through rhyme and rhythm. Spits & spatsWouldn't it be wonderful if our leaders composed sonnets to each other instead of chucking rough-edged insults? Perhaps something like this: I was waiting at the station of the nation/But the gravy train got held up in the rain . Maybe that needs work. Besides, nothing rhymes with beret.A love of rhythm and rhyme is instilled in us from infancy (remember "choo-choo" and "yum-yum"?) and this seems to hold true in every language. In English, the playfulness continues into adulthood by way of a practice called "reduplication", which sounds like tautologous nonsense but I assure you is a real word.The Phrase Finder defines reduplication as "the repeating of parts of words to make new forms" and says "the impetus for the coining of these seems to be nothing more than the enjoyment of wordplay". Which is a perfectly sound reason, if you ask me.You probably use dozens of reduplications every day without even noticing. Hanky-panky, sing-song, hip-hop, willy-nilly, okey-dokey, tick-tock, see-saw, zig-zag, chick-flick, wee-wee Most of these combinations came into being simply because they roll merrily off the tongue, but some have more interesting origins."Chit-chat" is a case in point. That bottomless well of contradiction called the internet is awash with erroneous explanations, the most common (in both senses) claiming that it was coined by soldiers in the Napoleonic wars, who referred to lice as "chats". Hence, according to this fantasy, when they sat around talking and scratching their insect-ridden scalps, it was known as "having a chat" or "chit-chat". One would assume that the idle chatter just let his lice get on with it.The Phrase Finder soundly rubbishes this namby-pamby theory, saying that chit-chat is merely a reduplication of "chat", the diminutive form of "chatter", which has referred to small talk since the 13th century - some 500 years before Napoleon's opponents started scratching their armpits. The painful truth about agony aunts"Chop-chop" (as in "hurry up") is another fascinating case. It is widely believed that chopsticks were invented by the Chinese. The utensils may have been, but the word was provided by the English."Chop", according to the trusty Phrase Finder, was adopted by English seamen in the 16th century as a slang word for "quick", possibly related to having to look sharp on deck when the waves were choppy. The same sailors coined the word "chopsticks" in admiration for the Chinese ability to eat nimbly with these instruments. "Quick-sticks", a variation on chop-chop, was also theirs.Moving on, we come to "shilly-shally", an avoidant technique used by ditherers who hover and vacillate, which gives snappy decision-makers the heebie-jeebies. Shilly-shally comes from "shill-i, shall-i", which was a lyrical way for 18th-century poets to ask: "Should I or shouldn't I?"All this might sound like arty-farty, fuzzy-wuzzy mumbo-jumbo, but it illustrates yet again the enormous amount of fun there is to be had with words. They are not simply useful tools of communication, they are the tip-top, ding-dong, razzle-dazzle bees' knees. Boogie-woogie, anyone?E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1