1. STRAWBERRY &amp; BANANA SMOOTHIEThis smoothie is the perfect breakfast on-the-go and is super simple to make.Serves: 3 4Ingredients:250g chopped strawberries1 medium peeled and chopped banana300ml low-fat milk150ml vanilla yoghurt1 tbsp honeyMethod:1) Pop all the ingredients into a blender and blitz until smooth.2) Pour into a glass and garnish with strawberries or almond flakes.Quick lemonade2. PINK WATERMELON LEMONADETasty, refreshing and pretty to look at what s not to love about this drink?Serves: 12Ingredients:4 cups cubed watermelon cup white sugar3 cups water cup freshly squeezed lemon juice6 cups of ice-cubesMethod:1) Pop the watermelon into a blender. Blend until smooth and then strain through a fine-mesh sieve to make a watermelon puree.2) Bring the sugar and half cup water to a boil in a saucepan over medium-high heat until the sugar dissolves.3) Remove it from the heat and then stir in three cups of cold water and the lemon juice to make the lemonade.4) Divide the ice into 12 glasses and scoop two to three tablespoons of watermelon puree over the ice, topping it off with the lemonade. Gently stir before serving and garnish with a sprig of mint for extra ooh la la.Quiz: How high is your alcoholic drinks IQ? 3. CUPID'S COSMOWhen the sun starts to dip, it s time to spice things up with one the most famous cocktails of all the Cosmo! Serves: 2Ingredients:120ml vodka60ml triple sec60ml cranberry juice60ml lime juice1 cup ice2 tbsp pomegranate seeds (optional)Method:1) Shake the ingredients well with cracked ice in a cocktail shake. If you don t have a professional shaker, you can always make do by stirring the ingredients together gently in a jug.2) Strain into chilled cocktail glasses. You can go the extra mile and frost the rim of the glasses with sugar and then for the final touch, spoon in some pomegranate seeds. A version of this article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.