The Lions coach is faced with a prickly dilemma.He has to rest his Springbok contingent consisting of scrumhalf Faf de Klerk, flyhalf Elton Jantjies, prop Julian Redelinghuys, lock Franco Mostert, centre Lionel Mapoe, wing Ruan Combrinck and flank Jaco Kriel after they did duty against Ireland last month, but he also knows that this will put at risk securing top spot on the points table. Bulls get the job done and keep hopes aliveAckermann also knows the Chiefs and the Crusaders in New Zealand are ready to pounce and potentially take top spot next week if his team fail to win in Buenos Aires.Not that their rivals' assignments are straightforward either.The Chiefs travel to the Highlanders, while the Saders host the Hurricanes - all contenders for the play-offs.Should the Lions, who have already secured a home quarterfinal, finish top of the table it will guarantee them hosting rights in the semifinals and final if they win their knockout matches."We have tough decisions to make because we are in a good position. We don't want to sacrifice that," said Ackermann."The Bulls found travelling to Argentina quite tough but coming home they adapted quite well. They only had one player a little bit ill. They didn't pick up the bad luck of the Stormers and the Sharks."It makes my decision a bit more difficult. Two sides said it's bad and one said it's not. We have to sit down and decide what risks are we prepared to take and what not. This was a home game and it was another must-win if we wanted to stay on top of the log "I think we are the only side to travel from a different country back home to host a quarterfinal. We'll cross that bridge when we get there."However, Ackermann may have a trick up his sleeve. Their match will be the last to kick off next Saturday and they will know what they need to do well before they take to the field.The Lions could make some last-minute adjustments to their starting team although that would be deemed against the spirit of the competition. Disappointing Sharks still aiming for last eightKriel, the Lions captain, saw limited game time against Ireland and he may be in less need of a break. But the remainder of the Bok contingent may be allowed to put their feet up."It was a must-win situation in the second and third tests against Ireland and when they came back to us it was a must-win game against the Sharks," Ackermann said."The entire season depended on whether we beat the Sharks. This was a home game and it was another must-win if we wanted to stay on top of the log," he said of his team's 57-21 victory over the Kings on Friday."We have demanded a lot of them. It is something I have to look at as much as the physical part. There's a combination of things but we've got the depth."The Jaguares have been hugely combative at home and the Lions will have to play with more control and intensity than they did against the Kings if they are going to finish top of the log.