With Brazil being their first Group A opponents at the Mane Garrincha National Stadium in Brasilia on Thursday in the men's Olympic football tournament, Dolly will have to hold onto his thoughts.The 23-year-old from Westbury, west of Johannesburg, will need to be at his best if the under-23s are to have a chance of qualifying for the quarterfinals.Dolly battled to contain his excitement. The innocent joy masks the enormity of the task that lies ahead in the tournament. They lost 3-1 to Brazil in a recent friendly, but coach Owen da Gama's side was far from outplayed."We know it's going to be tough because we know Brazil has great players and the majority of them play at the highest level. I think for us the best plan is to go there and not respect them."We have a quality team with the inclusion of Itumeleng Khune and Eric Mathoho. They'll give us the experience we need," Dolly said."That was the case when we played Brazil, but now knowing that we're there, hopefully we will become better in that department."At some point during the tournament, he may even come across decorated Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt, but he knows better than to challenge the 100m and 200m world and Olympic record holder to a race.It spoke of the fun Dolly intends having in Brasilia and S o Paolo, where they will play group games against Denmark and Iraq.It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity as the national under-23s have not made a habit of qualifying for the Olympics. I know the pressure is on us, but we need to go there and enjoy the moment, enjoy ourselves and learn from each lesson The class of 2000 wrote their own legend with their 3-1 win against Brazil, but the rest of that campaign was underwhelming.Losses to Slovakia and Japan rendered the spectacular Brazilian result useless as they exited at the group stage. Fortunately for Dolly and his crew, most of them were still kids at the turn of the millennium.But Dolly knows Ephraim "Shakes" Mashaba's group set a bar that has not been reached for 16 years. Making sure the team goes places after the Olympics is on his mind."I know the pressure is on us, but we need to go there and enjoy the moment, enjoy ourselves and learn from each lesson. I did tell the guys that once we qualify for the Olympics, there are more and bigger opportunities that are available for us."At the end of the day, it's a chance for us to represent the country and learn from the experience," Dolly said."There's a plan towards 2022 and I think the squad we have is building towards that. There are young guys who have been playing for Bafana and guys within the squad who are big players at their respective clubs. We have the talent and the mentality to go far, but we need to stay grounded."