Earlier their under-17s had been defeated 1-0 by Pirates in the semifinal of a junior tournament at Marks Park in Emmarentia, Johannesburg.Eric Mathoho's (58th minute) and substitute Lewis Macha's (95th) strikes in the Carling Black Label Cup at the packed FNB Stadium earned Chiefs bragging rights, and Steve Komphela and his men some confidence ahead of the coach's follow-up to his first trophy-less season.Pirates, like the Economic Freedom Fighters banner that was towed round the stadium by a helicopter, were swept away in the wind. Khune criticism is pure jealousy: MotaungApart from some late moments, the Buccaneers were nowhere. Clearly Komphela's side are at a more advanced stage of their preparations for the August 23 kickoff of the Premier Soccer League season.Muhsin Ertugral has work to do. The jury is out on the new deep role Bucs' coach has said he intends for Tendai Ndoro playing in tandem with Thamsanqa Gabuza as a centreforward.Ndoro - so effective running off defenders' shoulders last season - looked lost. He would be better served hunting for scraps next to the cantering Gabuza.Chiefs were far sharper in attack, striker Bernard Parker providing telling passes and linking excellently with the forward line.Ertugral would have realised from a patchy defence that a back-four resembling last season's - Happy Jele, Edwin Gyimah, Ayanda Gcaba and Thabo Matlaba - will benefit from the introduction of a smart centreback such as Abbubaker Mobara.Chiefs probed the strongest from the start, though initially rustiness showed with stray passes. There had been no chances after half an hour, but then William Twala got a drive close to Pirates' goal in the 31st.A period of pressure followed that saw Willard Katsande get the ball in the net, but Bucs goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo was adjudged fouled. Hendrick Ekstein could not scramble past Mhlongo.Twala shot wide and Ekstein tested Mhlongo as Chiefs continued to push from the break.Gabuza could not connect a header with just Itumeleng Khune to beat from Thabo Rakhale's cross in a rare half-chance for Pirates.Parker would have enjoyed his touch of magic that set up his side's deserved opener. He turned just outside the area and crashed a drive onto the crossbar. Mathoho scooped in a forward's volley from the rebound.Khune's save from Ndoro and Mathoho's clearance from Bernard Morrison preserved Chiefs' lead. Bucs had an added-time penalty appeal turned down for a foul on Morisson.But Macha nodded in Twala's cross to make it 2-0.