Their prize is a trip to Wellington where new champions will be crowned when they take on the Hurricanes next week.Coach Johan Ackermann reflected on the team's remarkable journey."Three years ago to the week we played Super Rugby promotion-relegation against the Kings. We came through. I'm proud of this group."That they are worthy finalists is beyond doubt. They pulled the defending champions' kilts over their heads with a display of dazzling power and precision. Cane made to pay for his costly mistakesThe power came from the engine room of the tight-five with Franco Mostert again assuming the role of shift manager, while Elton Jantjies was the chief orchestrator of the precision in the back division.The forwards toiled relentlessly, enabling Jantjies, who seemed to have the ball on a string, to impose himself. He was undoubtedly their general but the Lions were more fleet of mind and foot.They took the ascendancy after initial sparring and their opening blow was telling. It wasn't so much the seven-point lead as the way in which they marched the usually pertinacious defence into retreat.The Highlanders must have seen Jantjies' try in the 12th minute as a statement of intent.The try Jantjies set up for winger Courtnall Skosan in the 47th minute should have served as a warning to the Hurricanes about their potency in attack.Their forwards deserve kudos.Mostert has established himself as the heartbeat of the Lions tight five and his contribution yesterday was lion-hearted.Tighthead Julian Redelinghuys's reputation has made it impossible for him to continue being a silent assassin in the scrum. Opposing looseheads see him coming and yet there is little they can do as he inflicts his carnage in full view.Hooker Malcolm Marx is developing into a wrecking ball of some force and he would be better if he considers offloading. The Lions backrow yesterday made all the right decisions and proved as balanced as they could be in the absence of captain Warren Whiteley. Ellis Park faithful at last get their mojo backMany believed the Highlanders would tire in the latter stages of this game as the cumulative affects of their long-distance travels in recent week took hold.To be fair, they were a beaten side well before then.Coach Jamie Joseph lamented his team's inability to hold onto the ball. "We didn't take our opportunities early on. Those 50/50s were generally when we knocked on."Captain Ben Smith believes the Lions have the capacity to pull off an upset win next week. "They've got a chance. I don't think the travel will be an issue. I think they'll find it pretty exciting. I'm looking forward to a great game."SCORERSLions 42 - Tries: Elton Jantjies, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Courtnall Skosan, Jaco Kriel, Lourens Erasmus. Conversions: Jantjies (4). Penalties: Jantjies (3).Team 30 - Tries: Matt Faddes, Lima Sopoaga, Waisake Naholo, Joe Wheeler. Conversions: Sopoaga (2). Penalties: Sopoaga (2)sports@timesmedia.co.za