This sounds like every d cor fan's dream job - how did you land the position?It wasn't easy, but definitely worth it. After passing a recruitment screening and providing my design portfolio, I had seven interviews and two design projects before landing the job. I've worked in the homeware design industry for 12 years and have a background in industrial design, which most definitely also helped.Favourite and least favourite thing about your job?My favourite thing is seeing concepts and ideas become reality as products, then those products bringing joy to people every day. I believe the things that surround us have a huge impact on the way we feel. My least favourite thing is how long it takes for a product to get from idea to final product.You travel a lot for work. Where is the most exciting place you've been?My favourite place in terms of design and aesthetic would have to be Copenhagen. Design is so ingrained in Danish culture that it's both effortless and progressive. The most exciting place I've been is Japan. I lived and worked there for a while. The energy and culture is so different to home that it's like being in another world. Meet the creator who works in abstraction and figurative artHow do you keep up to date on trends and retail patterns?I am always aware of what's happening around me and questioning how that might relate to what I do. These days trends come through multiple channels and don't just filter down from international design trends. It's important to pay attention to what's happening everywhere - in pop culture, digital media, visiting design fairs or simply walking the streets.What do you love most about the latest Country Road collection?The warm tones paired with natural materials like cane and timber and finished with an accent of gold.A current trend you love?Monotone colour palettes and a return to natural materials and colours.A current trend you hate?Rose gold. It's time to move on.Colours that are big in homeware at the moment?Blush pinks and nudes continue to be strong.Materials that are big in homeware?Natural materials like stone, metals and wood.One homeware item you can never have enough of?Cushions. They are an amazing way to change the look of your home, both in your bedroom and living space.A homeware item you wish didn't exist?Motivation wall art like LIVE LOVE LAUGH.Some of your favourite designers?I have an enormous appreciation for mid-century Modern designers like George Nelson and Arne Jacobsen. I also respect those from the Bauhaus movement, not just for their design aesthetic but because they reacted against the soullessness of mass production to instil well-considered design into everyday products.A design tip for our readers?Keep it simple. If it isn't functional, sentimental or beautiful, you don't need it.Complete this sentence: The perfect home is ...a place that reflects who you are and where you feel your happiest.