Even the smallest rooms can be kept neat and tidy with these 10 tips and tricks:Think like a child when organising a child's room so that you create a space that is both fun and organised. For example, store the toys and items that are used most often in lower drawers or on lower shelves, while moving breakables and seldom-used items to higher spots. This way, a favourite Lego set or book is within arm's reach, while fragile goodies are neatly displayed on a higher shelf.Keep everything in order by labelling all shelves, storage containers and boxes. If your little one can't read yet, use picture labels. You can progress to a mix of pictures and words as they learn to read. Drawings or images of clothes, books and toys are a fun way to remind your child where things go. In this way, tiding up also becomes educational.If space is at a premium, storing toys under beds is a must. It's an obvious solution as it's low enough for kids to reach, but keeps their room looking in tip-top shape. Buy or make containers on wheels, so they are easy to pull in and out from under the bed.Create space above the bed by installing a headboard made out of shelving. This is the ideal spot to display books and fluffy toys, as they'll be in just the right place for bedtime. How to plan the ultimate bedroom for your childHang as much shelving as possible to give you extra surface area for all those toys. For a cost-effective option, recycle old crates. Once they're hung, you can paint or wallpaper them to get the perfect look and feel. If the room is really small, neutral and light colours will help the space look larger.If there's one thing we have no shortage of in South Africa, it's stylish baskets. From wire to wicker, these offer great storage solutions for books, toys and all those other loose ends kids tend to accumulate.A trunk is a beautiful item of furniture that can store masses of toys and books out of sight. Keep it at the foot of the bed and it can double up as extra seating. If you're using an authentic vintage trunk, make sure it can't lock. Also make sure the lid is light enough for kids to be able to open it on their own.If your kids share a room, divide it with a bookshelf. This will provide extra storage space and privacy. You can add pegboards to the back of the shelf, or cover it in blackboard paint to maximise its uses.Repurposed canisters are your new best friend when it comes to storing Lego, crayons and other small items. Avoid chaos by using transparent containers so your kids can see exactly which ones to head for before opening them all.Don't forget to organise toys outside of your kids' room too. Dedicate a shelf or container for bath-time toys in the bathroom. Store all your outdoor toys near the front door or neatly on the patio. 5 buys to create order in the kids' room 1) Bunk beds, R1,500, mrpricehome.co.za 7 stunning storage solutions 2) Storage basket, R229, hm.com 3) Hooks, two in a pack, R79.99, hm.com 4) Storage boxes, three in a pack, R299, hm.com What to consider when designing your child's dream playroom5) Retro shelf, R1,700, mrpricehome.co.za