Anikesh Ramani and Gavin Thomas, owners of Parkhurst's mid-century furniture store M dernist and the newly opened Wasteland in LindenYou already have M dernist - why a second furniture store?Gavin: Wasteland was my original shop which I opened about 13 years ago, before Anikesh and I partnered to form M dernist.Anikesh: M dernist as a brand is fairly specific. We come across a lot of stuff that might not fit in there, so the idea for Wasteland was to create a playground where we can line the shelves with anything that we think is cool.How did you get into the furniture business?Gavin: As a teenager I traded an old pine cupboard in for a 1930s teak wardrobe. That was the start.Anikesh: I've always appreciated design from the past. There's something cool about things that are not made anymore. The rarity, quality and style. I used to buy pieces from Gavin and we became friends, then business partners.How do you choose what goes into your store?Gavin: Things we like or feel need saving.How big a part of the process is restoring furniture? Gavin: Restoration is essential to most pieces to realise their potential. This can include anything from a simple clean and oil, to a full strip down and rebuild.Anikesh: It depends on what you want the end result to be. The important thing is to find something in good structural condition. Then you can either clean it up, restore it to any level, or modify, depending on your space and mood.The best find you've ever made?Anikesh: I treasure a lot of things but my favourite has to be an original 1984 BMW 635CSi which I am in the process of restoring. It took me years to find. The fact that it is black with a tan interior is just gravy. I bought it from a 93-year-old man, who was only the second owner, and I drive it every weekend with a smile on my face.Gavin: A rare early motorcycle. Meet the embroidery artist with a huge Instagram followingWhat is the value, for you, in used furniture?Anikesh: Besides the fact that it does not further contribute to our strained manufacturing and consumerist model, I like that you can't just pick it off a shelf from some big corporate.It is also generally better made, with fewer short cuts both in materials and manufacturing techniques. It's lasted, both in style and quality, for decades and, with proper care, will last longer still.Gavin: There is an unseen value in each piece of furniture - in its history, its preservation and its new appreciation.Is it tough to find good pieces in South Africa?Anikesh: Good pieces in decent condition are quite hard to find. Really special pieces are rare and involve a little luck and skill.Are you excited to have found a spot in Linden for your new store?Anikesh: Linden is a great suburb. Friendly, down to earth and understated. With more people and businesses looking to move there, its full potential is in the process of being realised. Some of your favourite designers?Gavin: Finn Juhl, Joseph Eichler, Ben Seibel and Philip Vincent.Anikesh: Finn Juhl, Dieter Rams and Paul Bracq.Tips for preserving furniture?Anikesh: Nourish when dry, wipe when wet. Gavin: Don't over-restore vintage pieces. Visit: WASTELAND, 56 4th Avenue, Linden, wasteland.biz