A visibly annoyed Motaung said he had to step in and come to the defence of the Chiefs star player after comments attributed to former and current players fuelled controversy this week.''It is pure jealousy," Motaung told the Sunday Times in his trademark forthright manner. ''It is pure jealousy and ignorance. Mamelodi Sundowns not done yet If you are ignorant, you try to shy away from [Khune's] qualities and highlight [negativity]. I mean he is the best ball distributor in SA and also the best goalkeeper we have in the country. So why not support [him]? Why?"Khune has been under sustained attack since SA Under-23 head coach Owen da Gama named him as one of two overage players in the Olympic team a few days ago.The other overage player in the team, Chiefs defender Mulomowandau Mathoho, has curiously been spared the venom reserved for his clubmate.Those questioning Khune's inclusion have suggested that the Chiefs and Bafana Bafana player was sneaked into the squad to deny 20-year-old goalkeeper Jody February - who played for the team during the qualifiers - an opportunity to play against some of the world's best players in Brazil next month.Motaung said he found the increasingly toxic environment very puzzling and he couldn't fathom why some are seemingly bent on creating discord when they should be supporting the South African team.''We do not understand where this is coming from and I think it is more a case of jealousy and pure ignorance.''If you look at other countries, like Brazil and others, they have taken top players like Neymar to the Olympic Games," he said.''Itu is the top player in the country. He is the No1 keeper in the country and he is the No1 goalkeeper at Kaizer Chiefs. He has got the experience and that is what Owen da Gama wanted. He found February's response to the critics very refreshing as Khune always goes out of his way to share his experience with other players ''The country needs one or two experienced players in the squad who have got quality and who have got stature. It is good for the youngsters to learn from him and, more importantly, the coach [Da Gama] has never said he will play him in all the games."February himself told Sunday Times last week that he does not want anyone to fight unnecessary battles on his behalf as he intends to challenge for the No1 jersey the old-fashioned way - through hard work.The 20-year-old Ajax Cape Town player added that rather than view his rival as the enemy, he hopes to learn from his more experienced counterpart at the Olympic Games.Motaung said he found February's response to the critics very refreshing as Khune always goes out of his way to share his experience with other players.''He is a leader and he is not jealous of sharing his qualities and his ability. He shares with everybody," said Motaung. "I think people should fear less and just relax, give support to our own. Why can't we support our own top players in the country?"