Indeed, much of the heat the Lions players have applied on their opposition has been fuelled by their desire not to be rejected again.Like so many before them, they moved to Johannesburg and invoked the city's founding principles by digging from a deep, dark place."The power of 'No' can be amazing," quipped Lions chief executive Rudolf Straeuli. "When you tell people that you can't offer them a contract, it affects them."Straeuli, of course, also knows about that jarring emotion when he left the Sharks as commercial manager.It was a stroke of luck for the Lions as no one in South African rugby was better equipped to deal with their challenges than Straeuli.</img>Lions chief executive officer Rudolf Straeuli Image: Duif du Toit/Gallo ImagesLions chief executive officer Rudolf Straeuli Image: Duif du Toit/Gallo Images"I have been in much worse positions. At Bedford [in England], as well as Border rugby. That experience helped a lot. You don't freeze when at the end of the month no salaries are paid. You don't panic," said Straeuli matter-of-factly.For the players who joined a franchise in the throes of its nadir, it must have seemed like checking in at The Last Resort.Even before Straeuli arrived in November 2013, the Lions seemingly had lost it all. In various stages of imbroglio after mid-2011 they saw equity partner Robert Gumede, coach John Mitchell and sponsors MTN leave in a huff.Amid a toxic atmosphere at Ellis Park, Super Rugby exclusion further darkened the skies in 2013. They seemingly could fall no further and an organisational overhaul was required."The business structure changed," said Straeuli. "Now we have Ellis Park Stadium (Pty) Limited and Lions Rugby Company. The simplicity of our structure helps you focus."The player pool too had to shrink. When I came back here as an administrator some of the people were already retrenched but wouldn't leave because they want to work at the Lions Judicious talent spotting became an area of focus for Straeuli and high performance manager Bart Schoeman."At the Sharks, I could make the odd mistake and get away with it by getting a [French No10 Frederic] Michalak or someone else from overseas. At the Lions, we didn't have the money to correct mistakes," recalled Straeuli.Apart from regaining Super Rugby status, he noted other key moments. "Altmann Allers becoming an equity partner was important in the rebuilding as was Johan Ackermann and Swys de Bruin's decision to commit as coaches."They also had JP Ferreira, the team's long-serving defence coach. Since 2007, he has resisted the departure lounge as Eugene Eloff, Hans Coetzee [under Jake White's guidance], Dick Muir and Mitchell all left.</img>Former Lions equity partner Robert Gumede. Image: Kevin SutherlandFormer Lions equity partner Robert Gumede. Image: Kevin SutherlandHe said: "I took a bit from everyone and I think it is the same for Johan, who brought a lot from the coaches he encountered in his playing days."A lot of people played a role here," Straeuli added. "Pieter Kruger, the psychologist who helped the Springboks, also helped us. Then Jannie Putter took over."One had to rebuild relationships with Leopards and the Pumas which had been problematic. We got players like Robert Kruger, Akker van der Merwe, Faf de Klerk and Corne Fourie."It's nice to see guys like Warren Whitely, Julian Redelinghuys and Franco Mostert do well. I said to Warren at the Sharks back then that I could not offer him a contract. We had Ryan Kankowski, Jean Deysel, Keegan Daniel.He was under-21 and went to Eastern Province and the Leopards before he ended up here. A lot of these guys were rejected elsewhere."People want to be here. When I came back here as an administrator some of the people were already retrenched but wouldn't leave because they want to work at the Lions."Oom Klasie [Havenga] used to work in the ticket office but now he's in maintenance and he's 83."Straeuli knows, however, that the virtues of human capital only get you so far. "Now people come knocking. I suppose the only pleasure I really derived was when we got those sponsors. Getting the Emirates deal helped swing things."Ellis Park looks more inviting. Inside its walls is a green canvas where Ackermann has helped create a much envied expressionist playing culture."In 2014 we had a conversation with [Chiefs coach] Dave Rennie about the relationship between structure and the freedom you give players," recalled Ackermann.</img>Johan Ackermann has taken the team to new heights. Image: Johan Rynners/Gallo ImagesJohan Ackermann has taken the team to new heights. Image: Johan Rynners/Gallo Images"Don't over-coach, he said. That day was an eye-opener about the direction in which we want to move," Ackermann said, explaining the birth of their playing style.He noted some other significant junctures in the Lions' rise. "Last year, we won three of our four tour matches. The guys got confidence and learnt how to play away from home."Last year's Currie Cup win brought us closer. It brought self-belief and developed a guy like Jaco [Kriel] as a captain. The guys also got recognition at the Springboks. That taught them how to handle pressure..."For former Springbok flyhalf Butch James, who was a marquee signing in the Gumede era, the biggest difference between then and now was the confidence and belief with which the Lions are playing.The Lions haven't won anything this season yet, but what is sure is that they have captured the imagination and a few hearts along the way too.