It's finally happened. Sam Allardyce has been appointed as the new England manager.Depending on which side of the fence you sit, this is either a pragmatic decision made at a time of great instability for English football, or a regressive step towards the past in an era where the game is more expansive and complex than ever.You can argue the ins and outs of Big Sam all day if you wanted. But you cannot argue with the raw statistics. Based on a clear-headed statistical analysis of Allardyce's Premier League teams, here's what to expect from the former Sunderland manager as the leader of England.1. No more possession footballWe all know that Big Sam has a somewhat more direct playing style than many of his illustrious counterparts in the league, but how do his teams compare to Roy Hodgson's Euro 2016 flops? United he stands: Jose Mourinho on his Old Trafford destinyUnder him, Sunderland averaged 40% possession, of which 21% of all passes were long passes. That's a huge contrast with England at Euro 2016, who enjoyed 62% of possession across their matches, and only 9% of their passes were long passes.2. Up and at 'emSunderland and England played the same amount of backwards passes, but the Black Cats were much more reluctant to play it sideways than Hodgson's side.More than 56% of England's passes were sideways at Euro 2016, compared to Sunderland's 43%.For those of us stunned into boredom by the monotonous [Gary] Cahill-[Chris] Smalling-Cahill-Smalling-[Kyle] Walker-Smalling-Cahill-[Joe] Hart passing patterns under Hodgson, which wasted more time, this could prove to be a refreshing step forward.Equally, we could rediscover the classic English inability to keep the ball in hot summer conditions, spend most of the time sprinting after our sweat-free opponents and then run out of steam as they slam four past a helpless Jack Butland.3. Threat from set-piecesAnother Allardyce stereotype: his teams are more effective from set-pieces. Well, frankly, it's true.Sunderland scored 17 goals from set-pieces after Allardyce's arrival, which was behind only Tottenham in the Premier League. Set-pieces made up 42.5% of all Sunderland's goals under Big Sam.Picture it now: 2018 World Cup quarterfinal. 87th minute. Captain James Milner is over the free-kick, won after Andy Carroll nutmegged Brazil's Marcelo and was scythed down by David Luiz.Clive Tyldesley: "Milner whips it into the box ... and James Tomkins heads it in! What a moment! England score at the death, and they're now only four goals behind!"4. A more solid unitCan you imagine an Allardyce team conceding from a simple long throw like England did against Iceland? It doesn't seem likely, does it?Defensive stability can only be a good thing for England, who have conceded 10% of their goals since 2006 from corners.5. Busy goalkeepersHart, Butland, Fraser Forster, John Ruddy. Whoever Big Sam chooses as his No1, they are going to need to be at their best, because Allardyce teams leave themselves open to a lot of shots on goal.Sunderland faced the most shots on target of any side last season, and Big Sam's West Ham sides of 2013-14 and 2014-15 were both in the top five for shots on target faced before he got the chop.6. Been there, done thatSay what you want about Allardyce, but you can't deny his experience. He may not have graced the Champions League but his extensive record in the league will have prepared him for anything.He has managed 467 games as a Premier League manager, behind only Harry Redknapp (641), Arsene Wenger (752) and Alex Ferguson (810).He has won 34% of those games.7. More losses than winsThis is perhaps a little harsh, considering Big Sam will spend much of his time playing against eastern European minnows, but it's a statistic that does not bode well for the more competitive fixtures ahead.At the five clubs Allardyce has managed in the Premier League, he has never won more games than he has lost. - The Daily Telegraph, London