For the long-suffering home crowd it must have felt intoxicatingly good to see their team not just dismantle a formidable Sharks team, but occupy such a lofty position at the final whistle.The bonus point win helped the Lions leapfrog the Crusaders and the Chiefs and guarantees them the right to host a quarterfinal later this month. Tour de France becoming a climber's eventThere may be other spinoffs. Given Super Rugby's brutal attrition rate the Lions may now have the luxury of resting some of their leading lights when they take on the Jaguares in Buenos Aires in their last league engagement in a fortnight. The Jaguares may have struggled this season, but a trip to Argentina can be taxing on mind and limb.Last night's performance from the hosts was another of first thumping authority. The question that faced the Lions was whether, in the absence of the hugely influential captain Warren Whiteley, they could rediscover the force and rhythm with which they vanquished their opposition before the June break.After an initial period of resistance from the Sharks the Lions played with the lan that characterised their play before the competition went into recess. They rucked, scrummed, jumped and tackled with a purpose and intensity that the Sharks simply could not match.It wasn't hard to find heroes. Scrumhalf Faf de Klerk is on another planet. The impeccable Ruan Combrinck can't put a foot wrong on the wing, while lock Franco Mostert runs like a giraffe but toils like a beaver. When the ball needs to be run into the heart of the defence Mostert grits his teeth while lengthening his stride.Flank and stand-in captain Jaco Kriel proved a popular try-scorer in the 58th minute - due reward for another lung- busting performance in the tight loose.The Lions' game has been one of equipoise. If they don't rock you back at close quarters, they sting you out wide.You have to feel for the Sharks. They were forced to make a significant change. Barrel-chested centre Andr Esterhuizen, around whom much of their ball-carrying revolves, did himself a mischief in training and his absence served to have a knock-on effect in the backs. Hamilton fears grid penaltiesThey were full of hustle and bustle early on, but their languor brought about indecision and, more fatally, errors.Tries by Combrinck and Rohan Janse van Rensburg rocked the Sharks onto the back foot before a wicked bounce saw Lwazi Mvovo horribly wrong-footed in the 26th minute. Ruan Ackermann picked up the loose ball and handed to Malcolm Marx, who dotted down unchallenged.However, it was the sheer force with which the Lions got Ruan Ackermann over the line for his try that most graphically highlighted the chasm between the sides.ScorersLions (37) - Tries: Ruan Combrinck, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Malcolm Marx, Ruan Ackermann, Jaco Kriel. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (3).Penalties: Jantjies (2).Sharks (10) - Tries: Lwazi Mvovo, Chiliboy Ralepelle.