A rare sight was beheld on the last day of the Lord's test. Not England collapsing against a wrist-spinner - that has been common through the ages - nor their middle-order disintegrations, which have been their leitmotif this year.It was the appearance of Pakistan supporters - perhaps a thousand - which was different, and potentially so significant. It seemed to confirm not just the rebirth of Pakistani cricket as a major test force, but also a reforging of the bond between the team and their vast swathes of expatriate supporters.It is rare for them to turn up to a test match, whether in England or Pakistan or their exiled home in the United Arab Emirates. Most are too busy working to take several days off at a time, and save their money for tickets to Pakistan's one-day internationals or Twenty20s.This misapprehension was the expensive mistake that Yorkshire made in 2010 when bidding to host the test between Australia and Pakistan at Headingley.It was a fascinating match, which included the first test innings of note by Steve Smith and was decided by the superb swing bowling of Mohammad Amir and his partner in more than one respect, Mohammad Asif. But it cost Yorkshire, who had expected half of Bradford to attend, about 1-million. Eye of a storm: Testing times for AB de VilliersPakistan supporters have always flocked to Old Trafford for one-day internationals, but will they do so for the second test, which starts tomorrow? The prevailing pattern could begin to change, because this Pakistan team are not only winning but doing everything they can to rehabilitate their image after the spot-fixing scandal of 2010.Even if Pakistan do not win this series, Misbah-ul-Haq is establishing himself as Pakistan's greatest test captain, though Imran Khan is unchallenged as their finest one-day captain for winning the World Cup of 1992. Like Hercules, Misbah has cleaned the stables.On tours of England, Pakistan's cricketers have always been the most elusive - even more so than India's - as far as the media are concerned. On this occasion, with the emphasis on diplomacy, the tourists have employed a public-relations consultant and, while Amir has been largely shielded, the other players have been encouraged to give interviews.Best of all, Pakistan won a memorable game at Lord's through their superior skills. And their celebration in front of the pavilion should not be misconstrued. Almost every spectator thought it was original and fun when Younus Khan led the players in doing press-ups, to convey their thanks to the army for their training camp. - The Daily Telegraph, London