We caught up with an embroidery artist Danielle Clough from Cape Town who describes her original works as 'bold, quirky and antiquated'Why embroidery?I sort of stumbled upon embroidery through a sequence of mistakes and opportunities. I started out by doodling on scrap pieces of felt with thread. I'm not sure if was the gentle rhythm of sewing, but I was instantly hooked.Do you think craft is making a comeback?I think a lot of "artisanal" disciplines are coming back. You can see this with hand-painted signs, craft beers and hand-poked tattoos. We have a high turnover of digital stimulation that feels really disposable.Because of this, the appreciation for a time-consuming craft that comes with a story is growing. Meet the Cape s fairest furniture makers Where did you learn the skill?My mom taught me to sew on a machine and to make clothes. I was never very good, but I would make plush toys and then draw details on with thread. That evolved into my sewing style.How do you decide on your subject matter?There are usually two ways I start a piece - either through an image I want to test myself with, or with a colour palette I want to indulge in. I then transfer the image to the surface I'm working on. Ideally, this is from photos I've taken.I've now started painting my references first with inks, then I put down the line work and colour it in with threads.Where do you create your works?Most of the work is done in my studio, but I always carry my sewing bag with me. I do it at home, in coffee shops - anywhere, really.How did you get so many Instagram followers (almost 67K)?Instagram made me a suggested user in December, and from there a few profiles featured my work. Posting well-shot and considered images has helped the growth. I try not to think too much about likes and followers, but focus on making interesting work that I enjoy. Three people we should be following on Instagram?@nannaventer, her drawing a day project will make your eyes smile;@michellekingdom, her whimsical embroidery is very special;@eugenia_loli, she is spearheading the game with layered and humorous collage art.Advice for aspiring artists out there?Throw out patterns and formulas and find the part of the creative process that fuels you. Make something and share it. Most importantly, listen to yourself. You are going to need to use the little voice inside you to make some big decisions.Visit www.danielleclough.com or say hi on Instagram @fiance_knowles