Finishing fifth and seventh is confirmation that they went through a terrible season. With the sold-out signs up, the multitudes that will descend on the calabash that is the FNB Stadium on Saturday will do so with one question in mind: what's new?Therefore the highly anticipated clash should provide signs of what the gold and black camp and the black and white block should look forward to in a season both teams will seek to redeem themselves from their barren spell.Fearless February: Khune doesn't worry meMore so for Chiefs coach Steve Komphela than his opposite number, newly appointed Bucs boss Muhsin Ertugral.Komphela has several areas of concern he needs to address as a matter of urgency.Hanging like an albatross around his neck is his inability to win the derby in 90 minutes.In the five meetings in league and cup action last season Pirates enjoyed the upper hand: 2-0 win Nedbank Cup, 3-1 win league and a 4-3 Carling Champion Cup penalty shootout triumph.The first-round league match ended in a 1-1 deadlock and Amakhosi emerged victorious in the Telkom Knockout via penalties.If the outcome of the derby influences a coach's longevity in either job, Komphela has to up his game fast.Another cause of distress for the leader of the Naturena tribe is that his king of goals last season was defensive midfielder Willard Katsande (seven). It is unChiefs-like to go a whole month without letting the ball kiss the net in five matches. That's what happened in March, twice against Asec Abidjan in the Champions League, against Jomo Cosmos and Platinum Stars in the league and Pirates in the Nedbank Cup. Emmanuel Letlotlo has received rave reviews for his appetite for goals - he netted nine goals in 15 matches in the reserve league.Hope springs eternal for the 20-year-old who's been rewarded with a three-year first team contract, whom many hope will be a solution to the goal struggle.If the firepower was powder puff, the rearguard was rickety too.No team can win a league having shipped 30 goals. Ditto Pirates, who were equally porous.Ertugral enters a team that was not a paragon of perfection.They had a pedestrian season in which balance went out of the window as Bucs attacked with alacrity but defended with torpidity.story_article_left3He would do well to bring with him a brand new GPS to help his strikers locate the goalposts.They would dominate games and run at the opponents but goals: dololo (nothing).Midfielder Makola top scored with seven and striker Tendai Ndoro, introduced into the team in the latter stage, managed five, the same as Sifiso Myeni who was put on transfer this week.The way Pirates have bought in the off-season points to serious rebuilding.That Chiefs are starting a new chapter is evidenced by the foursome fronting the advert of their new jersey unveiled this week: William Thwala, Lorenzo Gordinho, Kgotso Moleko and Hendrick Ekstein. No Sphiwe Tshabalala. No Bernard Parker. No Tshepo Masilela. Saturday should give us a first glimpse of what awaits both sets of fans along the way.