AN overhaul of domestic cricket's competition structures is on the cards for next season with a locally hosted global T20 league likely to be it's biggest cash cow.Cricket South Africa (CSA) chief executive Haroon Lorgat cautioned, however, that talks were only in a preliminary stage and that a final decision on structural change may only happen early next year. SA's lack of cricket a cause for concernLorgat explained sweeping changes in playing structures was now a priority after the organisation last year delved into issues around governance, administration and financial sustainability."The next step was to review the cricket systems. The board gave me permission to look at the domestic first-class and 50-over set-up. The other was to look at a T20 league."It was perhaps fortuitous in a way that the national team's performances also needed to be reviewed. It meant from top down we were able to look into the whole cricket system."The previous Ram Slam (T20) was not competing on the global level with the other leagues. We needed to reposition the league and deal with it as a separate project."Lorgat added because of the league's proposed global status, funding for it may be sourced there too."It is not going to be confined to the South African scene. We will be very careful in the way we go forth with this. It is very premature for me to be talking about this because we haven't tested any of the propositions yet but we have the ingredients to make this succeed."With global partners likely to be part of the landscape some provincial affiliates are jittery that they may have limited access to the riches the competition will have to offer."If it is going to be a city-based competition for 12 teams then we as a provincial affiliate would want to be part of that. I would want the team to play its home matches at our stadium. In fact, I would want a second franchise to play out of the stadium too. Of course, if you are a franchise owner by spending, say R70m, then you would want the right to select your team as you wish." Winter tests come in from the coldLorgat, however, moved to allay fears."Ultimately the control of the league will rest with Cricket South Africa. So it is owned by the members and affiliates. Whoever comes in will work in a regulated framework."We've got a bigger picture to manage. We are not in this business for commercial gain."The domestic four-day competition is also likely to be expanded to incorporate more affiliates. It will give exposure to more players at first-class level and it will also aid the organisation in its transformation objectives.The 50-over Momentum Cup will also get a nip and a tuck. "I think the current structure definitely needs to be changed," one insider, who did not want to be named, said about the competition structures."Maybe we should have shorter competitions that have greater impact. I would not be displeased to see it go up to 12 franchises. That way you can have traditional sporting borders so that fans can again have a natural affiliation with teams."