The 34-year-old - who left French champions Paris Saint Germain at the end of last season having scored 156 goals in 180 appearances - is reunited with Mourinho, under whom he played at Inter Milan.Ibrahimovic is Mourinho's second signing of the summer after highly rated Ivory Coast centreback Eric Bailly from the Spanish outfit Villarreal. BALE vs RONALDO"I am absolutely delighted to be joining Manchester United and am looking forward to playing in the Premier League," said Ibrahimovic, who will help bring back much-needed swagger to Old Trafford, along with Mourinho."It goes without saying that I cannot wait to work with Jose Mourinho once again. He is a fantastic manager and I am ready for this new and exciting challenge."I have thoroughly enjoyed my career so far and have some great memories. I am now ready to create more special memories in England." Ibrahimovic, who has won 11 domestic league titles but never the Champions League, will not only be a crowd pleaser but also help the development of younger players, said Mourinho."Ibra is one of the best strikers in the world and a player who always gives 100%," said Mourinho, who with Ibrahimovic has antipathy towards Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola.Standing 1.95m tall and with a black belt in taekwondo, he has scored eye-catching international goals, from his back-heel against Italy at Euro 2004 to his breathtaking overhead kick from 35m against England in 2012.Born in a difficult neighbourhood of Malmo to a Bosnian father and Croatian mother, Ibrahimovic has never forgotten where he came from while enjoying a glittering career.On his international retirement last week after a disappointing Euros, where he had promised, "The legend can still deliver", he once again evoked his tough background."It's a nice story because where I came from, what people call the ghetto, and I made that country (Sweden) my country." Swedish fans will remember his 62 goals in 116 internationals.But he is a consistent scorer at club level too, a leader on the pitch and in the dressing room and recently won an 11th league title, a fourth straight French championship with PSG after two titles at Ajax, three at Inter Milan, one at Barcelona and one at AC Milan.Two with Juventus were revoked because of a match-fixing scandal.story_article_right2Nobody in Manchester should expect any modesty from Ibrahimovic.On signing off from Paris Saint-Germain with a cup win he was visibly pleased with himself: "It's mission accomplished. I didn't learn to speak French but I've won everything. I came, I saw, I conquered." He was less euphoric after quitting Barcelona, where he failed to fill the boots of departing Cameroon striker Samuel Eto'o.Ibrahimovic blamed coach Guardiola, who he told to "go to hell" after a disappointing stint at the Camp Nou."When you buy me, you are buying a Ferrari," he said. "If you drive a Ferrari you put premium fuel in the tank, you drive onto the motorway and you floor the accelerator. Guardiola filled up with diesel and went for a spin in the countryside. If that's what he wanted, he should have bought himself a Fiat from the start." But continental and international honours have not followed as "Ibra" has featured at just one World Cup, in 2006, has not gone beyond the quarterfinals of the European Championship and has never shone in the Champions League.He said the 2014 finals in Brazil would "not be worth watching" after Sweden lost to Portugal in a play-off."One thing is for sure, a World Cup without me is nothing to watch," he said at the time.There will be plenty to watch in Manchester with Ibrahimovic and Mourinho now in the red half of town - and Guardiola over at "noisy neighbours" Manchester City.