And Conte will do so with John Terry at his side, as the Italian confirmed that the 35-year-old, who almost left the club at the end of last season, will remain as Chelsea's captain whether or not he plays.A week after Mourinho and Guardiola set out their visions for the two Manchester clubs that believe they are now at the centre of the Premier League's footballing universe, Conte made it clear that he has not come to Chelsea to simply be part of a stellar cast of managers that also includes Ars ne Wenger of Arsenal, Liverpool's J rgen Klopp and Tottenham Hotspur's Mauricio Pochettino.He believes he can relight the fire of Chelsea's 2014/15 Premier League title success and bury the memory of last season's disastrous campaign in which the club finished 10th and missed out on European football."I hope the Premier League title winners deserve to have taken the title home come the end of the season," said Conte. "We are underrated a bit and might slip under the radar, but I hope there's a small flame flickering here that can, hopefully, grow into a blazing inferno."Conte assured Chelsea fans that the club would not be left behind in the transfer market by big-spending United and City, as they continue talks over adding midfielder N'Golo Kant , defender Kalidou Koulibaly and striker lvaro Morata to the signing of forward Michy Batshuayi. "Now, some people can think that Chelsea are not favourites for the title and I think that they can be right after last season," said Conte."Also, you see that we have signed only Batshuayi. We are talking with the club and we know that this club - the team - needs to reinforce."In the coming days, we can buy one, two, three players. Players that can reinforce us for the season as it will be very, very tough."He added: "History says that in the [Roman] Abramovich era, Chelsea are always in the Champions League, and it is important to get back very soon, to fight for the title, to be there at the end of the season."Asked what he would bring with him from his time at Juventus and as the Italian national manager, Conte, 46, said: "There are certain managers who are winners."When I was in Italy, I liked to say that the manager, the coach, is like a tailor. A tailor who must build a dress, the best dress for the team. You have to respect their characteristics, the talent of the players. Then you decide. Three at the back, four at the back... it's not important. What's important for us is the right spirit."For this club to compete, to get back into the Champions League and to get back to winning the title, I know only this way - work, work, work. It is not easy because after last season, a bad season, 10th position, which is very, very bad, you must restart and try to start a new situation to try to fight for the title."Conte confirmed that he had an input into the decision to hand Terry a one-year contract extension."John Terry is captain of this team," he said. "When he plays, when he doesn't play, he is always the captain of Chelsea. Always. He is a great player with great personality."Conte is owner Abramovich's eighth permanent appointment and, this week, he spoke to former Chelsea coach and compatriot Carlo Ancelotti, who was sacked a year after winning the double in his first season."I'm not afraid of the club sacking me," he said. "It's not the most important thing for me now. The most important thing is to work and give an identity to my team, to bring my idea of football, my passion, my work, to transfer my passion to players and to the fans. That's important to me."- The Daily Telegraph, London