SA Rugby needs to change its commercial model if it is to stem the flow of players out of South Africa. That is a warning from Lions chief executive Rudolf Straeuli, who by way of pressing the need for urgent change shared a bone-chilling statistic."By midweek around 35 players at Craven Week had been signed up to play abroad. The overseas agents are here," he said.The Sunday Times understands that a former Bok loose forward as well as a former Lions captain who both played in Europe acted as scouts for foreign clubs at Craven Week. Super Rugby: who was hot and who was notSA Rugby deputy president Mark Alexander said government had been working on legislation which would prevent the recruiting of players who were still at school. "That's not a bad idea but of course people find a way around that."Straeuli said about the government initiative: "Nothing came of that."A Department of Sport and Recreation spokesman said no legislation was in the pipeline.Meanwhile, South Africa has been losing players to clubs in the northern hemisphere and the flow is on the rise with talent at various levels now in the cross hairs of foreign clubs."At the moment our commercial model isn't working for us," insisted Straeuli. "National contracting, broadcast rights and equity partnerships have to be looked at. You also have to protect your equity partners because how are they going to invest into your business if you don't protect them?" said Straeuli.Private ownership is a debate that rankles with many in SA Rugby. At each of SA Rugby's provincial affiliates, it is capped at 49.9%, which limits the amount of investment that can come into the game.Straeuli knows with wider investment more players can be contracted locally. "It is easy for the player to sign abroad. He may have a grandparent that holds a passport of that country or he may be going to an academy over there. The player will also pay much less tax in France."That view was shared by Damien Dussault of Toulouse-based Digidust Sport Agency, who added: "With all the politics involved in South African rugby, being a Springbok doesn't mean the same any more." Sharks know they need to up their gameHe said young South Africans are increasingly interested in playing abroad. "They think that they could play for France. I've heard some parents even saying this to their son. I don't think it is a problem of rugby, but a problem of the country and I don't want to judge that."Dussault explained why local players are so sought after in France (at last count Jake White had 14 South Africans contracted at Montpellier)."South African players are highly appreciated in France because of their work ethic. They never complain and they never cause trouble."Also, South Africa offers the kind of player that is difficult to find [in France]. Big, physical players. French clubs know that No4 locks are easier to find in South Africa than France."Straeuli believes, where possible, local franchises must work with foreign clubs so that players, especially those who go for shorter stints in Japan, get as much local exposure as possible."The national body doesn't have a policy regarding players abroad and their eligibility for the Springboks. There is no documented policy. What is a guy to do?" asked Straeuli.Alexander said: "We will give local players preference. But we don't want to cut off our legs by not bringing players back from abroad."sports@timesmedia.co.za