Itumeleng Khune's inclusion in the SA under-23 team may have sparked outrage, but goalkeeper Jody February says he is not threatened by his rival's presence in the Rio-bound squad.Under-23 coach Owen da Gama named Khune as one of the overage players in the Olympic team a few days ago and the decision elicited furious opposition from the cynics.But February told Sunday Times he does not want anyone to fight unnecessary battles on his behalf as he intends to challenge for the No1 jersey the old-fashioned way - through hard work. ''We do not have to be upset that Khune has come in," February said.''The way we look at it, (fellow goalkeeper) Nkosingiphile Gumede and I will learn from him."Those who opposed Da Gama's decision suggested that the Kaizer Chiefs and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper was parachuted into the squad to claim the No1 jersey when it was in fact the 20-year-old February's heroics during the qualifiers that enabled SA to qualify for Rio.February said he saw the reaction in the media and on the social media platforms after Khune and Chiefs teammate Mulomowandau Mathoho were named as the two overage players in the Olympic squad''I saw all of it, I saw the stories. Even some players were saying it. But it is not my decision and I am just looking to better myself at each training session each day, pushing myself.''If it is going to help the team I am okay with that. But I am not going to give up without a fight. I am always going to give my all and hopefully my hard work pays off and the coach will see that I am ready."Da Gama came to Khune's defence and said the criticism is coming from people who are assuming that the Chiefs goalkeeper will simply walk into the staring lineup.</img>Itumeleng Khune of Bafana Bafana during the South Africa National soccer team training session at UJ Soweto Campus on May 31, 2016 in Soweto, South Africa. Image: Sydney Seshibedi/Gallo Images Itumeleng Khune of Bafana Bafana during the South Africa National soccer team training session at UJ Soweto Campus on May 31, 2016 in Soweto, South Africa. Image: Sydney Seshibedi/Gallo Images ''This team has not been selected. Who says Jody will not start against Brazil (in the opening match of the Olympic Games)?" Da Gama asked.''Jody started in a friendly against Wits [this week]. So there are no guarantees and it depends on how players stand up and raise their hands [during training].''So there are no guarantees for anybody here. That is the message for everybody, please do not select the team until the team has been selected. I think it is just fair that we are allowed to go through the process and select the best possible team on the day."February said rather than view his rival as the enemy, he hopes to learn from his more experienced counterpart.''I will take as much advice as I can from him because I am young and upcoming, I have a future ahead of me and where he can help I will always take that advice.''He has played in the World Cup, the Confederation Cup and he has been in the national team for the last 10 years. I am just looking to grow and hopefully I can emulate if not better that. I have goals in life and I want to play for Bafana Bafana, push myself to new heights.''I think he is an amazing guy, humble, always helping us in training. He trained with us (on Monday) for the first time and he was actually pushing us and helping us a lot, giving us small advice on how to help our game and vice versa." Khune limped off the pitch during an under-23 training match against Wits this week and was on the field for less than 10 minutes.But after consulting his medical team, Da Gama played down the fears and said there was nothing to worry about.Chiefs communications manager Vina Maphosa confirmed that the goalkeeper only suffered a slight knock and was able to train with his teammates at Naturena this week.''He was in training this week and there was no reason to believe it was serious. There is no worry from our medical team at Chiefs," Maphosa said.The under-23s departed for Brazil yesterday and the Chiefs duo of Khune and Mathoho will only join them after Saturday's Carling Black Label Cup match against Orlando Pirates.sports@timesmedia.co.za