Should Sundowns succeed in their efforts to land the Bafana Bafana rightback, who is also comfortable playing at centreback, he will be the second defender the club has added to their arsenal during the off-season.The Brazilians have already acquired the services of Ricardo Nascimento, a Brazilian who crossed the floor to Chloorkop from Portuguese club Acad mica de Coimbra in June. Soon after securing Sibusiso Vilakazi's signature, Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane made no bones about the fact that he wanted to add more Bafana players, such as Ngcongca, to his squad in order to empower the men's senior national squad."'Vila' is important, not only to play for Sundowns. You've got to understand he is important for the national team. He is a key member of the national team," Mosimane told SABC radio."And also, I can't have all the foreigners in the team. I need to empower our national team."We need to have a starter in the national team. You know, the 'CBD' [a reference to Sundowns' terrific forward trio of Leonardo Castro, Khama Billiat and Keagan Dolly], it is only Keagan who is a South African who has just joined. But Khama is Zimbabwean. Leo is Colombian."You know you have [Mogakolodi] Ngele who is from Botswana. You have [Cuthbert] Malajila, he is from Zimbabwe. Anthony Laffor plays for Liberia," Mosimane said."So we need to bring, I'm trying to bring, starters in the team, of local players."It is very important. That is why we have Lucky Mohomi. That boy will play in the national team, trust me. He's gonna crack it, you know."We need to get as many players who are in Bafana to be in Mamelodi Sundowns. It is important for me as a coach not to have only foreigners.</img>Thapelo Morena of Bloemfontein Celtic. Image: Gallo Images Carl FourieThapelo Morena of Bloemfontein Celtic. Image: Gallo Images Carl Fourie"The foreigners are good, you've got to understand that. But also, we have to look after our own," Mosimane concluded.Should Ngcongca choose the Brazilians over Amakhosi, he will join a long list of Bafana internationals currently plying their trade for the Premier Soccer League and Telkom Knockout champions.They are centreback and captain Thabo Nthethe, leftback Tebogo Langerman, midfielder Hlompho Kekana, forward and national under-23 captain Dolly, midfielder- cum-leftback Mzikayise Mashaba and forward Vilakazi.But, as was the case with Vilakazi, Downs are fighting against Kaizer Chiefs for the affections of Ngcongca."Ngcongca has also had an offer from Chiefs. They are seriously interested. But so are Downs," an insider close to the developments told the Sunday Times."After Downs heard of the Chiefs offer, they came with an improved one. They put a R6.5-million annual package on the table."The 28-year-old Ngcongca, who has 41 caps for his country, has returned to his Belgian club RC Genk after spending a season-long loan at French Ligue 1 outfit Troyes.He has a strained relationship with his coach and is currently training with the Genk juniors.There are knots that need to be untied and hoops to be jumped for the transfer to materialise.The lanky Cape Town-born defender still has two years remaining on his contract.Chiefs, said the source, would detest losing a second player to Sundowns in a matter of weeks after missing out on Vilakazi. I've seen Lucky scoring an own goal for Free State Stars against Pirates and coming up and scoring a goal the other side "Losing two players to Downs in such a short space of time will not go down well."That's why it would be interesting to see how this one pans out."Mike Makaab, Ngcongca's agent, will have to fly out to Belgium in a bid to negotiate Ngcongca's release from his contract."It is not something that is going to be decided overnight. It will involve Makaab flying over to Belgium for talks with Genk to see how the player and club can arrive at an amicable solution," the source said.Sundowns have bolstered their squad with three players so far.Apart from Nascimento and Vilakazi, they've snapped midfield anchorman Lucky Mohomi from Free State Stars for a reported R6-million deal."I've seen Lucky scoring an own goal for Free State Stars against Pirates and coming up and scoring a goal the other side.</img>Lucky Mohomi of Mamelodi Sundowns. Image: BackpagePix Samuel Shivambu/BackpagePixLucky Mohomi of Mamelodi Sundowns. Image: BackpagePix Samuel Shivambu/BackpagePix"What does that mean? It means the boy is okay. He can have a dip in a match and within 20 minutes he can come back."That's important for me, to see the mental side. That is the right mentality," said Mosimane.Sundowns also have their sights set on snatching flying right winger Thapelo Morena away from Bloemfontein Celtic."We have made a formal request, a proper request to Bloemfontein Celtic, not behind the doors and destabilising the player," said Mosimane."He's young, he fits in the programme, he's quick, you know he will do well. He wants to play Champions League this year, Champions League next year," he said.Before flying out to Brazil, where he will be part of the under-23 squad at the Rio Olympic Games, Morena who, incidentally, Chiefs are interested in, said: "The big teams have more exposure than us. It's not like Celtic is not a big team."But if you compare, Sundowns are in the Caf and it is one opportunity no one would like to lose."Football is very short. You have to use the opportunity and the chance that you get."bbk@sundaytimes.co.za