And yet the idea of a transfer breaking the 100-million barrier remains difficult to swallow, especially if it's going to be midfield star player Paul Pogba.The cost of a transfer doesn't actually affect fans; we're not going to be paying off that 100-million, so why should it sit so badly?A deal for Pogba is looking more and more likely after Juventus made Gonzalo Higua n the third-most expensive player in history this week, with Real Madrid and Manchester United going head-to-head for the Frenchman's signature.Even if you haven't seen the best of him, if you watched Euro 2016, for example, the fact that these two clubs are interested at the mooted price is some indication of his ability. That said, is there any way Pogba is worth in excess of 100-million? Soon, players will die of fatigue: PepPaying 75-million for Higua n is a significant risk, but the thinking is obvious. The Argentine striker is a goal machine, he scored 36 times in 35 Serie A matches last season, and goals are the most tangible way to repay hefty transfer fees.If Higua n repeats that feat next season, the transfer will be a success. If he even comes close to 30 goals, the transfer will be a success.If he scores 20 goals two seasons running, it will be a success. If he doesn't score consistently, he will have failed.Juventus dominate Serie A and are signing a goal-scorer proven in that league, in a deal that weakens one of their main title rivals. Simple enough, really, right?So you have to wonder, what would it take for a 100-million Pogba to succeed at Manchester United?Quality of performance is increasingly quantifiable in the modern game, but high totals of goals and assists would have to be the main standard by which Pogba is measured.He scored eight and added 12 assists as Juventus stormed to the Serie A title last season, and was the main catalyst in their recovery from a woeful start, when they won only three of their opening 10 games.Pogba, who stated his attacking intentions by insisting on inheriting the No10 shirt from the departing Carlos Tevez, was truly magnificent. He grabbed game after game by the scruff of the neck and was seen as the best player in Italy.But to justify his expected fee, Pogba would have to do more than merely be United's best player.He would have to be looking at doubling the eight goals he scored last term. If Pogba is to jump to the top of the list, it will take something extraordinary to avoid a similar fate to those he is joining He would have to drag United to a first Premier League title in the post-Fergie era. Doing so from central midfield in a team with four players in more attacking positions than him is some challenge.That is what makes it so difficult for costly midfielders to repay their fees.Look at the most expensive midfielders in history. Gareth Bale was once a midfielder, but has only come close to justifying his world record fee by essentially becoming a forward at Madrid.Beyond the 27-year-old Welshman, of the next five most expensive midfielders - Bale 86-million, James Rodr guez 63-million, Kak 56-million, Kevin de Bruyne 55-million, ngel Di Mar a 59.7-million and Raheem Sterling 49-million - only De Bruyne can really be considered a success; and even for him it is very early days at Manchester City.The criticism that Sterling faces for both club and country epitomises the challenge that midfielders face after big-money moves. Mamelodi Sundowns not done yet If Pogba is to jump to the top of the list, it will take something extraordinary to avoid a similar fate to those he is joining.Di Mar a's 2014 move to Old Trafford is the closest thing the Premier League has seen to this Pogba deal: a name; a galactico; a statement.Look at how that worked out.Premier League signings that scream "we're here, and we want to show it" rarely work. Di Mar a, Fernando Torres [from Liverpool to Chelsea], Robinho, Andriy Shevchenko and Juan Sebasti n Ver n are just a few names that spring to mind.Pogba has proven himself capable of individual brilliance that wins matches, adding end product to the kind of tricks now necessary to convince the YouTube generation. Only one player completed more successful dribbles in Serie A last season than Pogba's 102.But he will need to be more than that to be a nine-figure success. He has flourished in one of the most dominant domestic teams in recent history, it remains to be seen how he would adapt to the more level playing field of the Premier League.How will Pogba's skills adjust outside Serie A? He was largely underwhelming at Euro 2016, often restricted by the shackles of a defensive midfield role and lacking efficacy when further forward.He also has just three Champions League goals in 32 appearances over four seasons.Pogba is exceptionally talented and at 23 he has plenty of sell-on value, but for United and the short-termism of Jos Mourinho, a 100-million signing would be judged here and now. He will have to do something really special to avoid failure at Old Trafford.- The Daily Telegraph, London