Tiyani Mabunda's three-year stay at Mamelodi Sundowns has never been the sweetest, belying his nickname "Sugar".With the quality of the club's midfielders in the intervening period, being on loan and warming the bench became his lot.But the 28-year-old defensive midfielder bided his time and has seemingly struck it rich in the Confederation of African Football (Caf) Champions League.Fearless February: Khune doesn't worry meHis contribution by way of two crucial goals in Sundowns' wins at ES Setif and Zamalek cannot be understated.It is a pity the left-footed cracker in the earlier game was deemed null and void due to the violent crowd and Setif's subsequent expulsion from the tournament."The two goals I have scored have been part of a very strange ride for me in terms of not understanding how things have been happening for me."I know the other one was nullified but I've been repaid with the one I scored on Sunday. Just being able to play and score is a blessing. I'd been scoring before I came to Sundowns. I just needed to find it in me to have the desire to score goals again," Mabunda said."Every player wants to score in the big games and I believe that with the goals that I've scored, it's a morale-boosting sign for me that I can score more goals. Coach Pitso Mosimane says I must go forward and score more goals. I have to be a midfielder who scores, not just one who is intent on sitting back and cutting off attacks."Mabunda's resilience is a key requirement for continental success. No team has ever won a tournament without deep wells of mental strength. Mosimane may be known as a coach who strives to know his players inside out but Mabunda seems to be a closed book to him."Mabunda's story is something else and I'd dearly love to know his story. I wish he could tell me what is his story and the secret that has got him here. It would be such a lovely story. I'd love to interview him and ask him about his story."Maybe he could write a book and tell us because I don't know his story," Mosimane said."I've always been one to provide opportunities to those who believe in themselves and those who think they can make it. Mabunda is one example of a player who has taken his opportunities."Mabunda is not a stranger to Caf competitions. He was part of the Black Leopards side that fell agonisingly short of getting into the Caf Confederations Cup group stages in 2012. They were beaten by Sudan's Al-Merreikh 3-2 on aggregate. They dispatched St Eloi Lupopo from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Nigeria's Warri Wolves before their dreams were dashed.Leopards found themselves on Caf duty because of Orlando Pirates securing the league, cup and MTN8 treble in the 2010-11 season. Leopards were beaten 3-1 by Pirates in the 2011 Nedbank Cup final in Mbombela, Mpumalanga. Leopards' relegation at the end of the 2012-13 season necessitated Mabunda's move to Chloorkop and the first thing he noticed was the club's ambition to win trophies.Should Sundowns beat Zamalek on Wednesday at the Lucas Moripe Stadium, Mosimane's side will be assured of top-spot in Group B and the benefit of playing the first leg of their semifinal away."For us to win the Champions League won't just be a good thing for the coach, it'll be good for us players too. We want to win the Champions League and we know it's not going to be easy."We'll be directed by what the coach says. One of the reasons why we've been doing so well is because of the preparation and planning the coach has put in. It took us three years to get the team ready for this tournament," Mabunda said."At Leopards we were playing but we were not actually sure if we could win the tournament but we knew we could play."