The mid-90s was the season of hope. The country wore the afterglow of a young democracy and sporting achievement helped imbue a can-do spirit.Plaatjies's selection as captain naturally gave rise to the expectation that rugby was busy negotiating the corner it for long had been blind to.Twenty years on, however, a black player is yet to lead the Springboks into battle in a test.Hooker Chiliboy Ralepelle, perhaps expediently, got a taste of what it might be like against a World XV.As SA Schools captain Plaatjies led John Smit, Gcobani Bobo, Bolla Conradie, Shaun Sowerby and Jaco van der Westhuyzen into battle. You will remember all of these players from Springbok team photographs they subsequently posed for. Stop the exodus: politics driving rugby players outThe picture for Plaatjies, however, the poster boy for transformation in 1996, quickly grew bleak.He readily admits that his career never scaled the peaks many had predicted, or that he envisaged for himself. The former eighthman was a blockbusting ball carrier, while his tackling, depending on your proximity, either chilled or rattled your bones.Plaatjies' plight is a familiar tale.He said: "There were opportunities. I don't want to sound negative, but there were times when I didn't get the reward for what I put in. You don't deserve to be treated that way. I didn't have major injuries. It was often just down to how many opportunities you actually got."Compared to other players, you were forced to do more in training. You don't want to bring colour into it but that was often our reality."The former Brandwag (Uitenhage) pupil represented Eastern Province before moving to the Golden Lions where, despite three Vodacom Cup triumphs, his career plateaued. He also played for the Valke and Griquas before ending his career at Raiders in the west of Johannesburg.Plaatjies is married and has a five-year-old daughter. He delivers materials for a glass and aluminium manufacturer.It's not what drives him."I really wanted to stay involved," he said wistfully this week. "Maybe get involved with a development project or coaching at a school. But it's difficult..."The captain's armband he wore in 1996 created the illusion for those on the outside that the window of opportunity may be slightly ajar. In truth, however, the advent of professional rugby, which happened to occur that year, only served to firm the suspicion that black players may have to remove the burglar bars first.