The superbly curated 100% Design South Africa returns to Gallagher Convention Centre next weekend for the third time. As the country's only international and local design show, the expo has established itself as the place for top talents to present their work and launch new ranges. It's a visual mecca.As well as being home to the latest contemporary furniture, ceramics, textiles and more, the show is curated around a series of exciting projects. Meet the embroidery artist with a huge Instagram followingOne of the most popular is 100 Beautiful Things, where curator Cathy O'Clery scours the country for 100 beautiful objects that are designed and produced in South Africa.Another special project is 100% Textiles, where the focus on fabrics is extended to a series of presentations called Talking Textiles. The programme will highlight new fabrics and trends.But this year's most exciting innovation will allow visitors to shop fashion, d cor, jewellery and accessories from the country's top producers on site. "We're looking forward to our first 100% Design Supermarket," says curator Laurence Brick. "Our version of a supermarket tips the notion of cash 'n' carry over into the sublime. So get ready to shop the best of local design."Unlike the rest of the expo, which showcases larger, to-order furniture pieces, fabric and lighting, the 100% Design Supermarket will focus on items such as jewellery, fashion and d cor accessories, which you'll be able to buy on the spot. 6 Amazing places you'll be able to shop: For beautiful handcrafted leather items that are designed to improve over time. Think travel bags, totes, device covers and more. With a focus on glass in their craft, you'll be able to buy their glass garden succulent vases, mirrors, wall clocks and more. Arkivio's d cor, lighting and furniture is all handmade in Durban.The beautifully understated pieces in this collection are characterised by simple lines and precise finishes.Specialising in high-quality beads and wire products, from bowls to geckos, all uniquely designed and handmade.The Stellenbosch designer creates a beautiful range of home d cor and accessories. Think handcrafted cotton baskets and bags made from locally sourced materials.The artist and printmaker's range includes wall canvases, printed upholstery fabric, scatter cushions and lamp shades inspired by indigenous South African subjects. Look out for proteas, baobab trees, aloes and Nguni cattle.