"I asked who they would support between Baroka and Pirates if we get to the final and they answered by saying the best team will win. No one could give me an answer, except my wife and kid who said they would be supporting me."Motupa (32) is an uncle to Orlando Pirates midfielder Gift Motupa (22) and there's a possibility that they could meet in the Nedbank Cup final on May 28. So you really can't blame the family for struggling to pick a side. It's a tough one.National First Division (NFD) leaders Baroka FC, who have beaten three top-tier clubs to get to the semifinals, face SuperSport United at Lucas Moripe Stadium and Pirates visit Free State Stars at Goble Park on Saturday.Having played together for about seven years at Baroka, it would be strange for Albert and Gift to be on opposite sides on match day. But it's something the Motupas, who both grew up supporting Bucs, are looking forward to."It would be interesting [to meet in the final]. I am not saying we will win. The best team will win," said Albert, who scored the opening goal in Baroka's 2-0 victory over Polokwane City in the quarterfinals. Two-way fight for Player of the Season"I'm proud of Roger (Gift), whether he is on the bench or he is playing. We nicknamed him Roger because he played like Roger Feutmba (former Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder). I am happy for him. He is my [older] sister's child."The younger Motupa, Gift, is proud to see how far they have come, as he reminisced on their days growing up in the Ga-Chuene Thogwaneng village in Limpopo to eventually playing professionally.Both were part of the Baroka team that reached the Nedbank Cup semifinals in 2011 but Gift left his uncle at the end of last season to join Pirates, where he has made 22 appearances."Albert always used to carry my kit when I was in school. After school I would find my kit with him and then go to training. At that time we did not have dressing rooms, so he would keep it safe for me. This is when I was in high school," said the under-23 international."He used to guide me, motivate me and tell me to work hard. When I was the captain at Baroka, he kept encouraging me so that I could be a good leader in future. We played together in the Vodacom League (now ABC Motsepe League) and in the NFD. It's just unfortunate that I left him at Baroka, but he was happy because that's what he wanted."The family is happy with our success so far. We wished to get to this stage when we were growing up. It would be great for us to meet in the final, and for the family as well."Gift looks quite the athlete on the pitch, but it was not always the case, says Albert."He was lazy, but when I saw he had potential, I said to him let's train. I am a hard worker, so I always wanted to see him in front when we were training. Now that he's at Pirates, he can see that it helped him."If they don't meet in the final, they hope to meet in the Absa Premiership next season. Baroka are looking good to win automatic promotion."I started with Baroka and I believe I'll retire here. And then I will coach this team," said Albert.sports@timesmedia.co.za