Here are five talking points.Where did it go wrong for May Mahlangu?Mahlangu's career has gone backwards. A long-term injury and club hopping in Europe has not helped him at all, but he has a chance to prove himself in a Bafana jersey. NEDBANK CUP FINAL: SuperSport United vs Orlando Pirates, May 28 at Peter Mokaba StadiumFarouk Khan, Mahlangu's former development coach, says that May's career choices were wrong. "In the last three years his career has not gone to where it should have because the clubs he joined have not allowed him to progress."Ramahlwe MphahleleHe captained the national under-17s, 20s and 23s, but has not been able to break into the Bafana squad despite being one of the most consistent players in the league. This is a chance to show he belongs in the national team. Serame Letsoaka, Mphahlele's junior national team coach, says: "He has leadership qualities and good character for international football because he travelled a lot on the continent. Hopefully he will get a chance to play."Diamond Thopola, the surprise call-upThopola has been one of the most consistent players at Chippa United. Is he ready for the big stage? His coach seems to think so.Dan Malesela, Thopola's coach at United, says: "I think he deserves a shot. I don't think he can disappoint because he is brave. He is not easily intimidated. He is one of our most consistent players."Who is the perfect partner for Jali in midfield? Morton's fortunes changed for betterIt seemed Dean Furman was the man Mashaba relied on to play alongside Andile Jali for quite some time, but things have changed and Hlompho Kekana has made himself a serious contender for the spot in midfield. So, who should partner Jali?Benson Mhlongo, former Bafana midfielder, says: "We cannot say who is the perfect partner. Every player needs to prove themselves and fight for a place because no one should be guaranteed a place. That creates good competition in the team."Why is Gabuza in the team?Thamsanqa Gabuza has struggled for form and game time at club level, yet he made the squad. Gabuza, though, has proven to be a menace for the opposition whenever he is playing on the continent.Phil Masinga, the former Bafana striker, says: "The coach believes in Gabuza because has done well for the national team. If I was a coach and I had a player doing well, then I would not look at his club form. I am sure there is a good reason he's selected."