These days he is like Samson from the Bible, who lost all his power after his hair was cut.In three seasons as Bidvest Wits head honcho, Hunt has finished third, third and second.With one game left before the completion of the 30-match league marathon, 11 points separate the champions Mamelodi Sundowns (68) and bridesmaids Wits (57).Not good enough by his lofty standards and nobody remembers No2. Hunt, however, disagrees."You've got to put it all into context. Look at the potential of our squad, money spent and not spent."We've had a very good season and we've made a lot of points. Any other league season would have been won with the points we got."He has moved Wits from a team that starts the season solidly only to struggle in the second part.This campaign they ran the race almost all the way, but in Brandy's voice, almost doesn't count.With Kaizer Chiefs developing an allergic reaction to winning, Orlando Pirates showing schizophrenic tendencies - red hot in the Confederation of African Football Confederations Cup and ice cold in domestic competition - SuperSport United changing coaches and Mpumalanga Black Aces faltering to deceive, the race was reduced to a Wits-Sundowns contest.Chasing a Telkom, league and Nedbank Cup treble, Sundowns settled for a league-and-cup double while Wits came a cropper.They were terribly and consistently inconsistent, but Hunt protested profusely when this was put to him."We were consistent only until maybe the last few games of the season." True. Wits's title challenge lost the wind beneath its sails when they drew 1-1 with Chippa United at home, 2-2 with Aces away, and lost 1-0 to Sundowns at home.That they lack enough firepower in their keg was demonstrated by their inability to beat a Chiefs team that endured a dreadful maiden season under Steve Komphela."We also had major injuries in the middle of the season, losing Phakamani Mahlambi, Tyson Hlatshwayo, Papy Faty, Sibusiso Vilakazi..."You take all those players and that's where the goals were. We lost our main goalscorers," said Hunt."Look at what happened at Sundowns. They took Castro out but Laffor came and scored a hat-trick that won them the league. That's the depth of quality they have."</img>Daine Klate of Wits in action. Image: Gallo Images Duif du ToitDaine Klate of Wits in action. Image: Gallo Images Duif du ToitMahlambi's sensational debut season was ended by an anterior cruciate ligament injury in February having scored four league goals.Hunt missed the services of Burundi international midfielder Papy Faty, who missed a huge chunk of the season when he collapsed after coming on as a substitute in a friendly match against SuperSport United on December 8.Both Faty (three) and Vilakazi (seven) returned towards the tail-end, contributing crucial goals - adding to the strikes of James Keane (seven), Daine Klate (seven) but it was not enough to turn dreams of finishing on the summit next season to reality.What does he need to do? Get a top marksman to bring a ruthless streak in front of goal. It has not been for a lack of effort on his part. He has tried Benjani Mwaruwari and Christopher Katongo but the Zimbabwe and Zambia old warhorses were on their last legs, had lost their lethal touch and were nowhere near the sharpness they showed during their heydays at Jomo Cosmos."We rely on our youth and we've got to try and build our club and team. It takes time to build a winning team and winning culture. We need a striker who can give us double figures."Go get him, Brian Joffe has deep pockets, doesn't he? "We can't buy anybody, we'll be looking at the free agents market again. We have to find someone who can get us double figures." Coach of the year 2002, 2008, 2009, 2010, Hunt is the only successful South African-born local coach - the others being Gordon Igesund and Pitso Mosimane - who has not had a shot at the senior national side."That's a natural progression and it will be an honour. The job is occupied, but it is not very honourable to speak about it when someone is there. If that opportunity arises in future, then yes, why not," Hunt said.Three seasons without silverware runs the risk of rendering or relegating him to the ranks of also-rans. The drought harms his reputation. How he responds and sets up his stall for next season will reveal whether there'll be a resurrection on the horizon or if more of the same lies in store. Wits have to step up."But do you think Chiefs, Pirates, SuperSport aren't going to be better? They will spend more money than us."Look at SuperSport. Just signed Yeye [Reneilwe Letsholonyane from Kaizer Chiefs] on a huge contract. It's gonna be tough, my friend."bbk@sundaytimes.co.za