Thamsanqa Sangweni put the Chilli Boys ahead in the 17th minute, Sibusiso Vilakazi equalising in the 59th.Wits head coach Gavin Hunt gave a second start to Burundian midfielder Papy Faty, who made a long-time return from a mystery condition that the club have remained secretive about with both goals in the Clever Boys 2-0 away win against SuperSport United on Tuesday.Worryingly, Faty collapsed again as he had for the first time in a friendly in December, in the 20th minute. Two minutes later he bravely, or foolishly, ran back on. But he was replaced in the 30th minute by Ben Motswari. Like his Wits counterpart, Chippa coach Dan Malesela named an unchanged side. Thatmeant Lerato Manzini, who scored a hat-trick in Wednesday's 4-1 win against Platinum Stars in Port Elizabeth, remained on the bench. PSL teams fighting to avoid relegation The first half seemed an exposition of why Wits will not win the league this season. In the 15th minute Vilakazi had space on the right but could not hit the target. The Premier Soccer League s player of the season two years ago has appeared demotivated, having been blocked from moving on, then used as a bit-part player, and finally getting a first-team run due to injuries.With a key playmaker half the man he used to be, Wits have looked stodgy and awkward in attack recently.A sublime little chip in the area by Xola Mlambo fed central midfield partner Sangweni in space, and the Chilli Boys star player was not going to waste a clear sight on goal, burying a finish in the top-right corner.It was Chippa who were the far more comfortable, streaming forward when they could. Only one of the league s best organised defences prevented them adding to the score, although Wits did see winger Daine Klate s header cleared off the line.Hunt had appeared to err starting with Henrico Botes upfront instead of James Keene, who has not scored recently but is still a key figure. When the coach brought on erratic Joaquim Lupeta for Botes at the break, it raised eyebrows further. Chippa continued winning the ball high up the field, then releasing probing passes to their dangerous runners.Wits, of course, had the greater quality. Klate had space to test Chippa keeper Daniel Akpeyi. From the resultant corner Vilakazi headed Phumlani Ntshangase s delivery into the net.With 12 minutes left, Lupeta headed high in front of an open goal from Sifiso Hlanti s cross.SCORESBidvest Wits 1Chippa United 1