Pitso Mosimane [Mamelodi Sundowns head coach]Not surprisingly, "Jingles" has mostly picked players from his team but also mentioned Bidvest Wits' Daine Klate."Kekana is the most underrated player and he has won so many league titles (four). I tip him as one of the contenders for Player of the Season because he played right through the season. He defends, he passes and he scores. He has had a brilliant season. So too has Khama (Billiat), Keagan (Dolly) and Leo (Castro). Onyango for me should be Goalkeeper of the Season and he is the [2015] Footballer of the year in Uganda [as voted for recently]. Klate has also had a fantastic season."Gavin Hunt [Bidvest Wits head coach]The three-time PSL champion believes the Player of the Season should come from the team that wins the league. "We need to have a serious think about it, so we should look at stats; goals, assists and all those things. I think what generally happens and I'm not saying it happens all the time, is that in some cases it is a knee-jerk reaction. 'He played well over the weekend,' but what about the other 20/30 games that he played? If you come to me today, I will tell you who my Player of the Season is because I've got a marking out of 10 for every player from game one and that is something we need to do in South Africa," Hunt said."So a player gets a rating for every match and the one with the highest rating at the end of the season is then the Player of the Season. That way there is no grey area," he said. Having said that, Hunt has picked players from the league champions, Sundowns, as well as players from his team. "Klate has been very good for us and Tyson Hlatshwayo has been good for us. I think those two have been magnificent. Moeneeb [Josephs] too, but I think that's a separate award for goalkeepers. In Sundowns, I think Kekana and Billiat. He [Billiat] is a magnificent player. I can't see anybody outside of those guys winning it."Cavin Johnson [Platinum Stars head coach]The Dikwena coach is not in two minds about his choice. He didn't hesitate to single out Kekana. "I think he's a cog in Sundowns' team and if he is not there, I think they will struggle. He's been outstanding and yet people only talk about the 'CBD'. I think he's made Billiat, Dolly and Castro look good. He's been part of the build-ups and he scored the goals as well, yet he's not getting the credit. Hlompho keeps the defence in check and he keeps the attack in check as well."