Still, one cannot help but feel that Hunt and Bidvest Wits dropped a gentleman's manly part conceding the 2015-16 title quite so tamely as they did in the end.Here are three potential reasons why they didn't win it:Hunt's utilisation of star playmaker Sibusiso Vilakazi.Vilakazi did not just win PSL Player of the Season in 2013-14, but cleaned up with the Footballer and Players' Player awards too.On seventh heaven: Pitso's smooth operationThe following season he won no personal awards and his form was patchy for Wits, though excellent breaking into the Bafana Bafana team that reached the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations finals. Speculation was Vilakazi and Hunt were not getting on.Wits fought tooth and nail to hang onto Vilakazi before the start of this season.A player who most thought should be the man Hunt built his team around, though, could not nail down a starting place.When, due to injuries, Vilakazi finally earned regular starting time at the end of the season he had gained weight and was a shadow of his former self.Hunt's statement, asked after Wits' penalties Nedbank Cup defeat to Free State Stars last month whether he was disappointed by Vilakazi's contribution this season, almost beggars belief. "Ja, that's disappointing but I mean, he's won footballer of the season, which he would never have won. And he's got to Bafana. So I must be doing something right," Hunt said.Costly draws at the end. Onyango keeps on keeping onWits could not put away Free State Stars (0-0 on April 16) and Chippa United (1-1 on April 30) in successive home draws. With Downs floundering and the gap at times reduced to four points, this lack of killer instinct hurt the Clever Boys.Needing a win to keep some pressure on Downs against Black Aces in Nelspruit on Tuesday, Vilakazi put Wits ahead in the 87th minute, but Zamuxolo Ngalo scored a soft equaliser two minutes later. Game Over.Throwing their Confed Cup game against Azam. With Wits seven points behind Sundowns in March the Confederation Cup loomed as an unwelcome distraction. Wits effectively threw their tie against Tanzanians Azam with a 3-0 home defeat, losing 7-3 on aggregate.Everyone knew Sundowns would try their hardest in the Champions League. It left Wits with six matches to play in April, and Sundowns eight. Some viewed this as tantamount to cheating. It earned Wits nothing but bad press, and a still empty trophy cabinet, and perhaps affected their players' morale and momentum.