Real Madrid will start this leg as favourites after holding City to a goalless draw at the Etihad Stadium, but Kompany has pointed to the fact that most of their best performances in Europe have come away from home.Having arrived in Manchester looking to contain and counter, Real will have to approach the second leg very differently in front of their own supporters and Kompany has backed City's attacking players to grab a precious away goal in Spain."We are very much in the tie," he said. "If I was playing an away game and it was a 0-0 result it is an uncomfortable result."It's a pressurising result because you are at home and your fans are expecting you to go forward and score goals and that can leave gaps." The 30-year-old adds: "We've proven against Paris St Germain how dangerous we can be on the counter. Against Sevilla, how dangerous we can be on the counter. At Gladbach as well. The story of this Champions League has been different to previously."It will be up there with the biggest games I've played. It's a career-defining game. There's so much still at stake. If you're going to have a draw at home, which is not a bad thing against Madrid, then 0-0 is the best result."Then again, I still back my team to score over 180 minutes. I would not expect us not to be able to score one goal. If we do manage to do it at the Bernabeu then this tie will be very much alive."Kompany went on to say how he relishes playing against one of the best teams in the world and one of the best players in Cristiano Ronaldo."I take it as a challenge to play against these guys," he said."Of course, I'll need to have a good day. Of course you need the help of your teammates and if your team plays well you can handle him. The only thing I can say is there's nothing I look forward to more in my career than the chance to play against one of the all-time greats. I hope it will happen many times in the future, that's what I play football for."With Ronaldo, it's not so much his strength, it's more his speed. He does everything a step faster than the other strikers."Even though you know where he's going he can take a touch that puts him a position to shoot so quickly. You might just not get there in time. He's a danger at any time and any moment he has the ball. It's that speed in everything he does."