The once great club has been run into the ground and its fall from grace can be summed up as huge - huge lows and huge debts.Today Swallows could be buried at Dobsonville Stadium. Relegation is staring them in the face and a defeat to Thanda Royal Zulu in the National First Division would condemn them to amateur football in the ABC Motsepe League."We have been trying to pick each other up as players," said defender Tshepo Moloto, a regular in a Swallows team that resembles a pauper in the last days of a life that was once great."We need to make each other realise that our jobs are on the line. Nervousness creeps in, but we still have a chance. It's been a long and hard season for us. This is a big game and we need to win. If things go our way with other results as well, we can survive."Swallows CEO Leon Prins has confirmed that Swallows is for sale after many years of holding on to the club and refusing to let anyone else have a say in the running of the club. Reports suggest that the deal is 99% done, with education MEC in Gauteng, Panyaza Lesufi, involved in finalising the deal."We are getting there. I am trying to facilitate everything right now," said Prins. "I do not want to say much in the media because that could be disadvantageous," he added, before requesting that he be given time to get the deal done.The players, however, know nothing about the sale, which really comes as no surprise. This is the same group of players who were kept in the dark when Prins was working behind the scenes despite claims from shareholders that he had resigned.There was also a time they did not know whether they would get paid at the end of the month."They have not spoken to us about it. We have not heard anything," said Moloto."What matters is us trying to save the team and maintaining the name and status of this club. Maybe they do not want to distract us. Sometimes you tell players such news and then they take it easy. So I think they are trying to protect us from that."Like Swallows, Thanda are not safe from relegation and will arrive in Dobsonville knowing that a victory would be enough to keep them in the second tier for another season.