(On that note, I have never received a message from a library accusing me of having "outstanding books". Late, yes; extremely overdue, yes; bring them back or we'll put a horse's head in your bed, yes; but never "you have outstanding books".My DVD supplier, however, sends these "you have outstanding movies" messages all the time and I'm getting tired of pointing out that while many of the films I hire are good, very few are outstanding.)But back to the surprise word crusaders. Last week, the purity of the English language (an irony-laden phrase if ever there was one) was defended by none other than Kenny Kunene, a man who knows not to put all his dim sum in one basket. Think about your language as an accessory to your personal style Kunene went on TV to complain about the new euphemisms associated with that innocent word "bless". If you haven't been paying attention, a website called Blesserfinder exists to match "blessers" - rich old married men - with "blessees" - poor young single women.I'm sure I don't need to spell out the mechanics but I will anyway. It works like this. Once blesser and blessee (or, if you prefer, she who is blessed) have connected, they enter into a transaction whereby the blesser provides regular money and gifts to the blessed in exchange for, well, you know the rest.Kunene earned his place in my gallery of heroes by saying that the use of ecclesiastical terms is ridiculous and we should simply call these givers and receivers of "blessings" what they really are. He used two words that start with "p" and which could not be plainer.Kudos to Kenny, I say. If this blessed perversion of language were allowed to continue unabated, no one could say, "Ah, bless" instead of "Ag, shame" to a cute child - not unless you wanted its mother to berate you for condemning said child to a life of prostitution. Same goes for "bless you" - we'd have to come up with a new way of acknowledging sneezes pretty sharpish. Pedants ARE nice people, no matter what researchers sayRarely has a topic provided so many outlets for irony (out, damned irony). The word "bless" is very old, starting with the Proto-Germanic blodison, which meant "to mark with blood". This comes from pagan times, when the gods were appeased by the sprinkling of blood from sacrificial animals on their altars. Does the new use of "blessed" make anyone else think of lambs to the slaughter?Fast-forward to the year dot, when "blessed" (or its linguistic equivalents) meant "praised" - as in the New Testament, when an angel told Mary she was "highly favoured and blessed among women" for being pregnant without ever, well, you know the rest. Some 33 years later, Mary's son gave a speech in which he handed out blessings to all the previously unblessed. It was called the Sermon on the Mount.About 13 centuries after that, "bless" became a verb meaning "to make happy" and it is this use to which the mercantile blessers and blessed have put it.If I may be permitted just one more tiny irony, South African rapper ProVerb, famous not just for his musical artistry but for the purity of his language (he does not swear) recorded a hit single called Blessed and Highly Favoured. It had nothing to do with the debate at hand, even though ProVerb was an Idols judge at the time. Next week might be a good time to examine the word "idol".