But the Mamelodi Sundowns coach's players have no such problems and have 10 million reasons to be wearing the widest grins after winning domestic football's Holy Grail this week.Mosimane turned back the clock to the simpler time of his playing days nearly three decades ago as he revealed that Sundowns' mining magnate owner Patrice Motsepe would continue in his now established tradition of awarding the entire Premier Soccer League title R10-million winners' cheque to his players and the club's technical team.''Those were humble beginnings [winning the league title with Cosmos in 1987] and they were a stepping stone to where we are now," Mosimane said.On seventh heaven: Pitso's smooth operation''At the moment I cannot complain about my life in football."I can take my children to school, my life is a bit different. It could have been worse and I appreciate that. But also I work hard to remain where I am."Mosimane said Motsepe's decision to award the entire prize money to the team also served as an incentive to convince other players who were employed elsewhere to join Sundowns."You change your life when you come to Sundowns."You have a chance to improve yourself as a person because you cannot be in the same space when you are working. You need to move up a little bit and you start to have responsibilities; you have a family, you have children, they are going to school, you have school fees, you know the story. You have got to be able to pay for all that. Your life changes also. That is a good thing and you end up having a better life."He cited the example of 29-year-old midfielder Asavela Mbekile, who joined the newly crowned Pretoria champions from Moroka Swallows two years ago with a much lower profile than he has now. Celebrating Sundowns unsung heroes"All his life he played in the first division, then he went to Moroka Swallows and then he eventually got to us. I am so happy to see where the boy is now. There is nothing wrong with that, he is driving a nice BMW and he bought a new house, his first house. But that is what we want to see with all the boys. That is the importance of playing professional football and playing at a high level."Outgoing midfielder Bongani Zungu is another player who has completed an amazing transformation and is now on his way to Vitoria de Guimaraes after agreeing a two-year deal with the Portugal side."You know Zungu didn't have a car when he came to us from University of Pretoria [in 2013]. We are talking about a boy who is now a millionaire. Those are some of the things that people do not look at positively when it comes to Sundowns. They say 'You are going to Sundowns, you are going to destroy your career, you are going to be on the bench, you are going to be sitting on the stands.' Yes, there is a big possibility it could happen, but look at Khama Billiat, look at Bongani Zungu, look at Mbekile now."