I've been watching a lot of horror movies. A lot for me, anyway. Given a choice, I would watch none at all, but life doesn't always work like this. Sometimes, circumstances align in such a way that we apparently have no option but to sit and watch several horror movies with our best friend. It's exhausting.If I auditioned for a remake of The Wizard of Oz, I would be cast as the cowardly lion immediately. They would take one look at me and just know I was perfect for the role. I spook easily, like one of those horses that is always shying at shadows and clouds.I am scared of all kinds of things. Some of them are legitimate fears, and are useful in that they probably help to keep me alive, but others are outlandish at best.It doesn't make any sense to be as scared of earthworms or caterpillars as I am, or indeed to be scared of them at all. I know that they are harmless, but I am getting all grossed out and shivery even as I type this. What if one is crawling over to touch me right now? Similarly, it doesn't make any sense to be as scared of horror movies as I am, and yet here we are. Q&A sessions are a form of tortureI can hardly stand to listen to someone describe a scary movie. Said best friend, raised on a diet of Twin Peaks and It, once tried to tell me the plot of Rosemary's Baby. She got as far as "Well, there's this couple who live in an apartment ..." before I had to beg her to stop. Like I said, I would never watch a horror movie again if I could avoid it, but the world is a hard place. It recently came to pass that I watched a whole season of a scary TV show. I cursed and moaned the whole way through, but I did it.There have been a few side effects. One is that I must take a running jump to get onto my bed, in case there is a wolf or a killer clown underneath it, but I have been building up to that point anyway. The other is that I am now able to spin the most innocuous-seeming situation into pure horror-movie gold.I went to Long Street Baths the other day and the first thing I thought was, "This is the perfect location for a slasher film." Not "Isn't this nice?", not "Exercise is a boring necessity," but "The acoustics in here would probably be amazing for echoing screams."I can't stop doing it.You show me a supermarket aisle, and I will show you the exact point the chainsaw-wielding antagonist would push over a shelf to prevent escape. I saw a little kid playing with her doll the other day, and what popped into my head was, "Bet you that doll is haunted."This cannot last forever. I am creeping myself out, and I am sure it is no fun for anyone else either. I just looked out of the window at a bird, and the first thing I thought of was the Hitchcock film. Send help at once.