There is something especially rewarding about planting bulbs in autumn and waiting for them to flower in spring. Maybe because it s a guaranteed show, provided you keep them reasonably watered. In many cases the bulb houses the flower stem ready to emerge.South African gardeners have fallen out of love with the exotic bulbs that mean spring in the northern hemisphere, for example daffodils. They seldom flower in their second year as they don t naturalise outside their climate zone. It s cheaper to buy a bunch of flowers at the florist in spring.Anemones and ranunculus are still worth growing, but I have struggled to get them to repeat the show two years in a row.Of course, gardeners don t need to look abroad in the first place: South Africa is packed with flowering bulbs. Most flower in spring and make good garden plants. All of them will reward you for giving them good composted soil and sunshine. 1) Freesias are the cultivated hybrids of the wild plants which grow on the eastern side of Southern Africa, mostly in the Cape. They come in many colours, usually mixed, but you can also buy packs of white or yellow, which have the best scent. Your plants may not be quite as tall and perfect as commercially grown flowers sold in florists, but they will be beautiful nonetheless! Save the seeds and they will grow easily the next winter. Meet the SA florist who bought hanging plants back into fashion2) Ixias, like freesias, are members of the iris family and also indigenous to the Cape. They will give you an even better display of colours, ranging from white to pinks, mauves, purples, yellow and even green. They are often bi-coloured with a darker centre. They are known abroad as the African corn lily. 3) Sparaxis, with their clear and bright colours around a yellow centre, with purple or black blotches, are almost jewel-like. They must have well-drained soil, and if they do, you can leave them all year. How to prune your plants like a pro4) Watsonias, indigenous to the Cape, Lesotho and Swaziland, are familiar to Cape readers as they are extensively grown by parks and municipalities and, of course, in nature. There are about 55 species, and they flower in white, orange, red, mauve salmon and more.They are weeds in Australia, New Zealand and some Indian ocean islands, but they belong here so you can happily plant them. They take most garden conditions, even waterlogged ground. 5) Scadoxus are one of our most stunning indigenous bulbs, although we share them with the whole of east Africa from Sudan to the Cape. They are often known as paintbrush lilies because of their heads of numerous stamens, but have many other names: snake lilies, African blood lilies, rooikwas in Afrikaans and isisphompho in Zulu.They can form huge clumps if left in a semi-shaded position with plenty of leaf compost. There are many different varieties and colours, usually orange to red, but can be found in green or yellow, with specked or purple bracts around the flower heads. You will find potted bulbs in nurseries that specialise in indigenous plants.