Mother A doesn't cook beef stroganoff. Mother B didn't take her kids to the crocodile farm.These are two terrible derelictions of duty. These are sinful women. Bad mothers. How do I know this? They told me so.Mother A is a spiritually aware, beautifully groomed MBA graduate. Mother B is a creative who produces inspiring work and helps care for her ailing parent.Both are mothers of happy, healthy children.Yet they were berating themselves because they could not find time for beef stroganoff (cooking it) and the crocodile farm (visiting it).These two are trying to be part of a generation of mutant beings, unicorns. Have you noticed those who are trying?They are called Career Mothers.Yes, I know the Career Mother has existed in different forms since the 1950s. But right now, she is trying to mutate into something quite different. Quite alarming.Mother's Day scent guide: pick the perfect perfumeShe is into power-performance at work, equal pay and equal division of labour. She embraces her feminine form in powerful, sexy fashion.Her family eats close-to-nature meals; she does quality time, positive reinforcement; she reads. Her power extends to the bedroom, and the dining room table. She breast-feeds, she learns robotics for homework assignments. She recycles. She runs. She schedules time to feed her own aura and nurture her "support circle".She does not take the short cuts her predecessors might have. Fast food, hamburgers and chips? Not good enough. There was no banting in 1985. Career Mothers must do it all, but consciously and with meaning.Don't just touch, also connect. In those 2.4 hours spent at home, after work and before bedtime. Later, don't forget the lingerie.The Career Mother wants to set a good example, make an impact on the world. She is time-impoverished, trying to be lifestyle-rich.This being ... how long will she last?Do you know what is funny about the Career Mother? She does not think she is doing anything special.Insurance company First for Women asked about 4000 South Africa women, half of them working mothers, who they attributed their life's success to; 93% said "other people".They mentioned those who played supporting roles: their own mothers, best friends, partners. A whole 7% acknowledged that it was SHE herself who had anything to do with it.This, despite 96% saying she spent "a large amount of my time helping and taking care of others". Lean in on your career and make the office hours count. It is a great example to your children and the world needs more of you If you think that South African women are funny, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg quotes a US study in her book, Lean In, dedicated to the Career Mother."If you ask men why they did a good job, they'll say, 'I'm awesome. Obviously. Why are you even asking?' If you ask women why they did a good job, what they'll say is someone helped them, they got lucky, they worked really hard."Then there is this gem from another worldwide survey, quoted by Melinda Gates. "Women spend an average of 4.5 hours a day on unpaid work, including grocery shopping, childcare and laundry. That is more than double the amount of time men do. Men spend significantly more time on paid work and also on leisure activities, which include playing sports, watching TV and hanging out with friends."Why does the Career Mother do this, without taking enough credit, earning less (still a sad fact) and, in 2016, having to hear that women in the workplace have a "bitch switch"?Why is it expected of her, from her fellow women, men, her children and herself?I expected Sandberg to tell us how to do it all. On the contrary: she says it must stop. Stop trying to be the Career Mother. She is in a constant state of stress, hyperactivity, flux. Leleti Khumalo: "Vitiligo does not define who I am"Do you know what you need to do, Career Mother wannabe?Be honest. This is not possible every day.Take a breath. Take a break.But do what is important.Lean in on your career and make the office hours count. It is a great example to your children and the world needs more of you.But, Stop.Switch off at 5pm. Attend the soccer games.Ditch the wholesome meal once a week, eat fishfingers.And while we are at it, change the dialogue.Dads do not "baby-sit" so you can have a night off. They parent.Allow him to do it, even if he does it wrong.Don't hate on the ones who seemingly get it right, stop calling them names.Oh, and to hell with the beef stroganoff. And to hell with the crocodile farm. LS