The Bidvest Wits winger runs the rule over two of 2015-16's underachieving teams' chances of finishing with a bang at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane:SUPERSPORTWith Stuart Baxter coming in midway they haven't been as good as he would have liked. It's 50/50 - you never know if they'll be brilliant or shocking. Baxter's a very thorough coach and likes a certain style and way of doing things. It will take time for SuperSport to adjust.There are moments where they look solid, and at others more like in the first half of the season. There seem to be a lot of bad habits.But in a final it's evenly balanced. Either side has players who can win it -- Jeremy Brockie can score from any angle. Gyimah up against different challengeIt's a very talented squad. Thuso Phala and Dove Wome are matchwinners on their day. Bradley Grobler's played well recently. Dean Furman seems to have relaxed from when he arrived and had a lot to prove, and seemed to be trying to do too much.PIRATESWhen I left the club the restructuring had started. This season there have been a lot of changes. Rooi Mahamutsa and Happy Jele would normally play 90% of the games. They've played less. Rooi's still a great guy to have in a squad, who can come in and give you that experience and stability.There is more energy and pace in Pirates' defence now than experience. I think that's why they play on the front foot - like in the semifinal against Free State Stars.If they go on the back foot, containing can be a problem for them. They play on the front foot, with the energy and speed they have now, the wingers coming inside and fullbacks overlapping.That causes problems for the opposition, especially on [left-back] Thabo Matlaba's side.Mpho Makola has filled in nicely for Oupa Manyisa as playmaker. When I was at Pirates, he was full of talent and we were waiting for him to explode. You still feel he's holding something back.Luvuyo Memela and Thabo Qalinge coming in with good performances, provide the spark. Since Tendai Ndoro stopped scoring, Pirates struggled to win again. He could be crucial.THE VERDICTPirates have shown the hunger in this competition with their previous wins [against Kaizer Chiefs, Jomo Cosmos, Mamelodi Sundowns and Stars]. When I played for Bucs we were never the underdog. In any cup competition, with either of the two big teams, Chiefs or Pirate are favourites with what they have behind them.