Will he extinguish candles to mark the day on Wednesday, or is the former St Stithians pupil too cool for school?"I'll be on a plane at 7.20pm heading for Heathrow Airport," he said about the flight he'll be on with his Proteas teammates en route to the West Indies."Earlier in the day I will be spending time with my family and friends. Maybe have a drink or two, nothing too hectic."I'll probably be packing. My parents will be working and I'll probably have to run some errands."We'll see what happens. Maybe there will be a few surprises coming, we'll see."One surprise he would not mind is being upgraded to the front of the plane."Maybe a first-class upgrade would be nice. That will be cool for my birthday. I'm not serious but that would be nice," he said with the sincerity of a bowler enquiring about the wellbeing of a batsman he felled.As for an actual celebration, Rabada said he would probably quietly mark the occasion with his parents this weekend.He can do with a bit of the quiet stuff. His breakthrough season has made him a much sought-after property, the poster boy for Cricket South Africa in their perpetual quest to try and win hearts and minds.The latter part of last season came at breakneck speed and Rabada rarely had time to catch his breath."It's been a great time to reflect about my game and about my life. I've learned a lot of things," said the confident but urbane quick.His maiden season could have left him with the overwhelming sense that the world is at his feet, but he knows his voyage of discovery has just started."I still have to see what is going to work for me. I've been gyming and getting slowly into my skills to get ready for the upcoming tour."When everyone comes home [from tour] I go to Kent. I know the coach Jimmy Adams played for the West Indies. He's got a lot of experience and he'll be a great aid. He is in charge of a young team."Rabada speaks enthusiastically about throwing his weight in with England batsman Sam Billings, allrounder Sam Northeast, Kiwi batter Tom Latham and opening bat Daniel Bell Drummond.As much as the county circuit helps knock young professionals into shape, fast bowlers, through excessive workload, can encounter all manner of orthopaedic upheaval."There is a contract in place that is fair," he said, drawing the sting from the question. "It has all of that built in. I am obliged to follow the things that I am supposed to follow."With that kind of maturity, who needs to blow out candles?