He came to the Premier Soccer League via Ethiopia to sign for SuperSport United's then-coach Pitso Mosimane in 2006. The Ugandan gentle giant at times took a back seat to Andre Arendse, but won three league titles under Gavin Hunt from 2008 to 2010.He was released and struggled for game time at Mpumalanga Black Aces. That trend continued at Mamelodi Sundowns, with a loan spell at Bidvest Wits, with 17 league starts in four seasons.The latest chapter in Onyango's story will almost undoubtedly see him win this season's PSL goalkeeper of the year award having been the unsung hero in Sundowns' league and cup double under Mosimane.On seventh heaven: Pitso's smooth operation"I'm hopeful this year it will happen for me," Onyango said. "Moeneeb Josephs has more clean sheets. Winning trophies might help me. But Moeneeb gives me a big challenge."Josephs's Wits pushed Sundowns hardest. Wits coach Hunt had brought in some of his SuperSport old guard - Elias Pelembe, Bongani Khumalo and Daine Klate - to instil a winning mentality.But two other SuperSport old boys, Onyango and defensive midfielder Hlompho Kekana, have been key cogs for Sundowns. The "CBD" - Leonard Castro, the PSL's little Neymar; Khama Billiat; and Keagan Dolly - grabbed the goals and limelight.But it was Onyango, Kekana, centre-backs Wayne Arendse and Thabo Nthethe, and young captain Ramahlwe Mphahlele who provided the foundation.Like Arendse - the unlikely replacement for Sundowns' 2014 player of the season Alje Schut - Onyango seemed destined for a bit role.But Downs struggled as Kennedy Mweene bled goals. In the 3-1 Telkom Knockout final win against Kaizer Chiefs in Durban in December Onyango made two penalty saves."Losing in the MTN8 was disappointing. The league was a marathon and we didn't know it would turn out this way," Onyango said."I looked at myself and was devastated at being on the bench so long. I decided I had to be more selfish - take the chance when it came. At 30 I had all those mistakes to learn from. "The two penalties lifted me. Wayne came in. Everybody started working for each other. It clicked and we went 18 games unbeaten."Onyango's exploits for Downs and his national team - he has played every game for the Cranes, who sit in second place in Group D with a strong chance of qualifying for a first Africa Cup of Nations since 1978 - have seen him win Uganda's footballer of the year for the first time.It's been a long journey for the young man who in 2005 left Kampala's SC Villa against family wishes to follow coach Milutin Sredojevic - later boss of Orlando Pirates - to Ethiopia's St George, on his path to the PSL.Onyango sees a Downs side emerging that could dominate the PSL for a few seasons."The coach has changed the mentality. Sundowns players were spoilt. From when Pitso came no one was in a comfort zone. He was hard on players and made sure you won't get a pension at Downs. And we're still improving."