Klopp was sitting with his squad in Basel's Novotel as the laments about the 3-1 defeat to Sevilla headed into the early hours. Recognising the despondency, the Liverpool boss tried to lift the mood.He said: "This is just the start for us."Klopp then led his squad in a rendition of The Kop chant "We Are Liverpool" - a defiant response to the second final loss in four months. NFD coronationThe German coach not only has morale to rebuild before the start of next season, but also his squad.Regardless of the outcome of the Europa League final, Klopp was working on revamping his team to oversee a radical Premier League improvement next season.Midfielder Marko Grujic and centre-half Joel Matip have already signed. By next week, Liverpool hope to have secured the 4.7-million signing of 22-year-old goalkeeper Loris Karius from Mainz. Karius has played for the Germany Under-21 side. He will threaten the place of current No1 Simon Mignolet.The most high-profile deal would be the capture of Germany World Cup winner Mario G tze from Bayern Munich for about 20-million. Liverpool have been pursuing G tze all season.Following his nightmare performance against Sevilla, Alberto Moreno will not be guaranteed his starting spot come August. Youngster Joe Gomez - who started the season at leftback and has been sorely missed since he suffered a cruciate knee injury - will be back.Leicester City's fullback Ben Chilwell is also a long-term Anfield target. However, Chilwell, 19, - who is also wanted by Arsenal - is rated by the champions beyond 7-million and although he has a year left on his contract there is no eagerness to cash in should he continue to stall on signing new terms.Udinese's Polish winger Piotr Zielinski was pursued by Klopp last January and the interest remains for the 11-million-rated 21-year-old, although Borussia Monchengladbach's 20-year-old Syrian-born midfielder, Mahmoud Dahoud, has emerged as a possible alternative should a deal not be agreed.Dahoud also represents Germany under-21s.Although the lack of European competition will inevitably hurt Liverpool next season, Klopp has never felt any of these deals dependent on securing Champions League football.The lack of fixtures will be felt most by those already at the club. Many will be asking themselves how much game time they will be given next year. Players such as Jordon Ibe, Joe Allen, Martin Skrtel, Lucas Leiva, Adam Bogdan and Christian Benteke recognise how few games they will start, unless there is an injury crisis. Kolo Tour is out of contract and there could be a decision to make for club captain Jordan Henderson, who will have to adjust to being part of rotation amid suggestions Premier League clubs are ready to offer guarantees he can no longer be certain of at Anfield.That said, few of the established players who started on Wednesday are expected to be sold.Unlike the last two years, when huge bids for Luis Su rez and Raheem Sterling lured two of the most prized assets from Anfield, Liverpool do not expect any of their current squad to provoke similar levels of interest.Despite Phillipe Coutinho's long-term ambition to play for a top level Spanish La Liga club, despite his club player of the season award, he hasn't yet matured to the level that would force Barcelona or Real Madrid to bid in excess of 40-million - which is the minimum it would take for Liverpool to contemplate a sale.