A Lucky Mohomi own goal in the 24th minute handed a soft advantage to Pirates before Luvuyo Memela scored in the 38th. Ayanda Nkosi's strike for Stars in the 57th appeared to get them back into the game. But Memela added a third for Bucs in the 87th minute.Bucs substitute Thamsanqa Gabuza (89th) and Stars midfielder Mohomi, this time into Pirates' net, added two more goals in a ragged but exciting end to the game.Stars coach Giovanni Solinas got his marching orders from referee Phillip Tinyani in the 77th minute, apparently for remonstrating with officials.Stars had given Pirates close games in the league this season, losing 1-0 at Orlando Stadium but winning by the same score in Bethlehem.Solinas's team have gone six matches without a win in the PSL to slip to 11th place, but still impressed with their resilient, hard-working football that has caused problems for bigger-name teams. Magical Mokoena proves his worth at SundownsA close semifinal, with Stars' hard running forcing Pirates to do the same, was expected. And that was what materialised.On a dark, cold afternoon in Bethlehem, Pirates reached a second final this season after their defeat against Tunisian's Etoile du Sahel in the Caf Confederation Cup in November.Solinas had brought in nine youngsters for his side's midweek match against Kaizer Chiefs. An impressive 2-2 draw did not convince the likeable Italian to retain any of the up-and-comers, as he made 11 changes.Front-liners Johnny Mathole, captain Paulus Masehe and Danny Venter returned. Justice Chabalala and Mohomi were back from suspension. The grafting, physical strike partnership of Sello Jafta and Nkosi threatened Bucs' back four, as did livewire midfielder Mohomi.Pirates coach Eric Tinkler has raised eyebrows since a 2-0 Nedbank Cup quarterfinal win over Mamelodi Sundowns in Atteridgeville that appeared to represent yet another turning point in Bucs' see-saw season, by tinkering with a lineup that had been working.Bucs went four league matches without a win, including an embarrassing 2-0 humbling by Chippa United in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday. Tinkler had left-back Thabo Matlaba and midfielders Issa Sarr and Thabo Rakhale back in his starting lineup for Rooi Mahamutsa, Lehlohonolo Masalesa and Menzi Masuku.Stars' determination to make this a contest was dented by Mohomi's own goal. Memela's floated free kick seemed fairly innocuous and the Stars midfielder, running towards his own net, needed to head anywhere but at it. He miscued, and Ea Lla Koto keeper Mathole was left stranded.On a counterattack Jaftha had two players free inside, his pass finding Venter, with Mhlongo saving at the Stars forward's feet. Matlaba's cross bounced off the bar at the other end. Memela gave Bucs a cushion when he had space to take the ball onto his right foot on the edge of the area, and the winger produced a clever low, skidding finish past Mathole.Stars came out strong from the change rooms, Mohomi hitting the right upright.Then substitute Nhlanhla Vilakazi floated in a free kick from the left of the area, Edwin Gyimah slipped trying to clear at the far post and Nkosi was gifted the ball at his feet six metres out to slam past Mhlongo.Pirates, pushing to make the game safe, stretched Stars as Mpho Makola hit the upright.With Stars' defence in tatters, Memela buried his second. Gabuza, who had not scored since January, even got in the act from the bench, blasting in the rebound after Mathole stopped a shot from Rakhale.With the semifinal ending ragged, Mohomi profited from an uncleared corner to pull one back for Stars.sports@timesmedia.co.za