But it is characteristic of a footballer who has an interest in Buddhism that he does not believe this has anything to do with karma.That Mashamaite took a pay cut to play in Sweden - where his club, BK Hacken, just won their first trophy, the Svenska Cupen - flies in the face of reports at the time that he was asking for crazy money from Chiefs.In the same spirit, or appreciation of spirituality, Mashamaite gave his 2014 Chiefs Player of the Season award and R100000 prize money to centre-back partner Mulomowandau Mathoho. He sees the positive in how being pushed from Chiefs saw him realise a dream of playing in Europe that he had given up on at 30. Magical Mokoena proves his worth at Sundowns"I look at the situation at Chiefs and think football is about phases," the 31-year-old said from Sweden this week. "Clubs are always winning and then rebuilding. I'm not bitter."Something good was born out of that in me coming to Sweden and winning trophies for a new team."I grew up following Chiefs. I speak highly about them in Sweden."Mashamaite is recovering from the compartment syndrome injury that kept him out of the Svenska Cupen final last Thursday, and will see the defender out of action until June. The centre-back played in all five matches before that, including the semifinal, where Hacken beat Hammarby 3-2 away in Stockholm.Hacken again won away in the final, coming from 2-0 down to beat Malmo on penalties at their Swedbank Stadion home ground."It makes history and boosts the confidence not only with the players, but also the community of Hisingen, an island off Gothenburg where the club is based," Mashamaite said. Once great Soweto club could be swallowed upA year ago he was left scrambling for a club after negotiations for a new Chiefs contract broke down. He had an unsuccessful trial at New York City FC. The defender arrived in Sweden in August but only started playing in September after his work permit came through.Hacken coach Peter Gerhardsson was assistant at Helsingborg in 2006 to Stuart Baxter, the Chiefs coach Mashamaite won league and cup doubles under in 2012 and 2014.The defender believes this helped smooth his transfer then introduction to the first team, where he played all seven matches left last season.Mashamaite's success in Sweden seems just a reward, or karma, for a defender whose dignified captaincy of Chiefs in 2014-15 culminated in the ultimate gesture to Mathoho."I grew up where there was no money sometimes. It was about what we had to share as a community," said the former Bidvest Wits defender from Bochum in Limpopo."At Chiefs, the whole squad contributed. Giving the award to 'Tower' [Mathoho] was my way of saying my teammates shared the load, and shared the victory too."