But when you have Jomo Sono as an uncle, Julius Sono as a father and Eric "Scara" Sono as a grandfather, there's only one place where you belong and that's on the football pitch. Period.Mokoena, however, was wired differently to Bamuza and Matsilele Sono, his cousins who have worn the colours of their father's club Jomo Cosmos at the highest level.The Mamelodi Sundowns assistant coach wasn't quite big on playing football, certainly not professionally. He wanted to be on the touchline, giving instructions. "At age 14 I was coaching a team I was playing for called Fulham FC. In my spare time I was taking 13-year-old boys and doing drills with them," said Mokoena."I was born and raised in Orlando West, Soweto. I grew up in a football environment. My earliest childhood memory is being at Orlando Stadium watching great football players."That led me into football, so even when I passed my matric very well and my mom wanted me to study law, I had to convince her that I wanted to do sports science at the University of Johannesburg [UJ]."Mokoena played for Cosmos under-19s but never really progressed because he would sometimes be away from training due to his coaching commitments in Dube, Soweto."There was a team called Sabelo Superstars in Dube. It was owned by Sabelo Moyo, the former Swallows player and captain. That is the start of how I was called into coaching. I was studying [at UJ] and also coaching there," said the 30-year-old, who holds a diploma in sports science."I played with the under-19 of Cosmos, but it was when I was moving into coaching. I did not have the hunger to push myself towards being a professional footballer. I was there for about a season and a half, but I was missing a lot of sessions because I was coaching the under-11s and 13s in Dube. I was a decent player who used to work hard." Nobody knew about me at the time and I don't know what led [Steve Komphela] to believe in me His ability to coach, despite being young, did not go unnoticed.Silver Stars (now Platinum Stars) came calling in 2007 and that's where his incredible journey to eventually lifting an Absa Premiership title with Mamelodi Sundowns began."The opportunity to join Silver Stars came in 2007, working with the under-17s. Cavin Johnson was the head of youth and Allan Freese was also there. I would not be where I am today if I had not worked with those coaches," he said. "In 2008 I moved to the under-19s and I worked with players like Mzi Mashaba, Dino Ndlovu and Simphiwe Tshabalala, who is at Highlands Park now."When [Steve] Komphela joined Stars in 2009, he came to my training sessions and after a while he made me one of his assistants in the first team. Nobody knew about me at the time and I don't know what led him to believe in me."When Mokoena left Stars in 2010, he went on to work for a company called Complete Footballers and then joined the Bloemfontein Celtic/Sporting Lisbon academy, where he spent six months before joining Sundowns in 2011. Once great Soweto club could be swallowed up"I spent six months at the Celtic/Sporting Lisbon academy as a head of youth, but they could not really get the academy up and running. I got a call from Sam Mbatha, who offered me a position at Sundowns. He knew me from Stars."I started as an under-19 assistant coach. At some point I also worked with the under-15s and the Sundowns team in the ABC Motsepe League," he said.When he got a message from Patrice Motsepe in 2014, requesting a meeting, Mokoena admits he was worried. But it was a message that would change his life for the better.It was a meeting to confirm him as a second assistant to Pitso Mosimane and together they're bringing success to Sundowns.Mokoena, who has completed the coaching courses of the SA Football Association and Caf, is out to prove that coaches who haven't played professional football can be successful.sports@timesmedia.co.za