Sarah Jessica Parker is an actress who tends to elicit strong responses. I know women who view her not just as a style icon but as the individual who essentially invented wearing clothes. I am familiar with people who talk of Sex and the City as if it was a kind of Rosetta Stone for the interpretation of modern life and relationships.And then, on the other hand, I have been privy to many a discussion of Parker's heinous flaws. These conversations tend to be strongly worded, yet vague. "She just bugs me," a friend summarised the other day. "Her and her horse face."The notion that Sarah Jessica Parker wears above her neck the face of a horse appears to be quite common. If you don't believe me, I urge you to gallop over to the website Sarahjessicaparkerlookslikeahorse.com, which proudly advertises that it has been featured on "over 400 blogs and newspapers around the world". 'Shark Tank SA' will give you 'Dragons' Den SA' deja vuThis line of discourse irritates me. As a small comparative experiment I just typed "Nicolas Cage looks like a basset hound" into Google and received precisely zero hits, despite the fact that the statement is self-evidently true.Welcome to the patriarchy, folks: where Sarah Jessica Parker could apparently be cast as a body double for Seabiscuit without questions but nobody wants to talk about Nicolas Cage's canine jowls.Parker is on my mind at the moment because her latest series, Divorce, has just landed on DStv. It's her first major TV outing since Sex and the City, and anyone hoping for a return to the cocktail-sipping ways of Carrie Bradshaw has another think coming.That's made quite plain early on in the first episode, when we see the estranged husband of Parker's character announce to her that he has just taken a dump in a coffee jar due to her hogging the bathroom. We ain't in Manhattan no more, Toto.The last episode of Sex and the City aired 12 years ago, and in some ways Divorce seems a reasonably plausible point for where those characters might end up over a decade later.Parker's character, Frances, is a disenchanted suburbanite with teenage kids and a husband she now views with contempt: the series takes us through the bitter and drawn-out process of disentangling her life from his.If this sounds bleak, it is - sometimes uncomfortably so. But it's also very funny. One of the show's treats is comic genius Molly Shannon as Frances's unhinged friend Diane.In real life, Parker isn't divorced, by the way. She's happily married to Ferris Bueller's Day Off star Matthew Broderick, who we haven't heard much of since he killed two women in a careless driving accident in Ireland, escaped with a fine - and rode off into the sunset.WATCH the trailer for Divorce:Divorce