Grab Sunday Times Travel on October 30 to see which two of these photos will each win R2,000.Vote for your favourite photo on Facebook and you could also win R1,000.</img>Category finalist: Endangered Africa On a walking safari in the Pafuri region, Kruger National Park, we came across this old elephant carcass, says Chris Renshaw. Apparently a poachers snare had ended this unfortunate elephant s life. This image conveys the despair the brutal practice of snaring causes for animals across Africa. Image: Chris RenshawCategory finalist: Endangered Africa On a walking safari in the Pafuri region, Kruger National Park, we came across this old elephant carcass, says Chris Renshaw. Apparently a poachers snare had ended this unfortunate elephant s life. This image conveys the despair the brutal practice of snaring causes for animals across Africa. Image: Chris Renshaw</img>Category finalist: Endangered Africa Sudan, the last northern white male rhino on the planet. There are only three individuals of this subspecies left: Sudan and two females, with whom mating has failed. The elderly Sudan, now in his 40s, spends his last days under 24-hour armed guard at Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Kenya. This subspecies once ranged in Uganda, Chad, Sudan, Central African Republic and Democratic Republic of the Congo before being wiped out by poaching. Image: Chantelle MelzerCategory finalist: Endangered Africa Sudan, the last northern white male rhino on the planet. There are only three individuals of this subspecies left: Sudan and two females, with whom mating has failed. The elderly Sudan, now in his 40s, spends his last days under 24-hour armed guard at Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Kenya. This subspecies once ranged in Uganda, Chad, Sudan, Central African Republic and Democratic Republic of the Congo before being wiped out by poaching. Image: Chantelle Melzer</img>Category finalist: Endangered Africa One of the world s rarest reptiles, the plain mountain adder (Bitis inornata) is an endangered dwarf adder endemic to South Africa. Only eight wild specimens, most of which are now preserved in alcohol as museum samples, have ever been found. This individual was photographed in the Eastern Cape (exact location withheld). Image: Shivan ParusnathCategory finalist: Endangered Africa One of the world s rarest reptiles, the plain mountain adder (Bitis inornata) is an endangered dwarf adder endemic to South Africa. Only eight wild specimens, most of which are now preserved in alcohol as museum samples, have ever been found. This individual was photographed in the Eastern Cape (exact location withheld). Image: Shivan Parusnath</img>Category finalist: Wildlife Behaviour The dominant black-maned male of the Busanga pride, Kafue National Park, had stolen a puku off a female, says Graham Wood. The cubs watched helplessly, and his eyes told the entire story. No family when it comes to feeding time with lions. Image: Graham WoodCategory finalist: Wildlife Behaviour The dominant black-maned male of the Busanga pride, Kafue National Park, had stolen a puku off a female, says Graham Wood. The cubs watched helplessly, and his eyes told the entire story. No family when it comes to feeding time with lions. Image: Graham Wood</img>Category finalist: Wildlife Behaviour This rare, vulnerable flightless dung beetle (Circellium bacchus) is endemic to only a few areas in South Africa, including the Addo Elephant National Park, where this image was taken. It can bury dung 250 times heavier than itself in one night. The female uses the dung to build a brood ball, in which a single egg is laid. She rolls the ball with her powerful hind legs, as seen here. Image: John VoslooCategory finalist: Wildlife Behaviour This rare, vulnerable flightless dung beetle (Circellium bacchus) is endemic to only a few areas in South Africa, including the Addo Elephant National Park, where this image was taken. It can bury dung 250 times heavier than itself in one night. The female uses the dung to build a brood ball, in which a single egg is laid. She rolls the ball with her powerful hind legs, as seen here. Image: John Vosloo</img>Category finalist: Wildlife Behaviour Observing a troop of baboons near Phalaborwa, Kruger National Park, I noticed a very tiny baby, probably born in the past 12 hours, says Lisl Moolman. The interaction between mother and baby was fascinating. She looked down at her newborn for long periods, while other troop members slowly approached the pair and stared at the baby, almost as if in awe. Image: Lisl MoolmanCategory finalist: Wildlife Behaviour Observing a troop of baboons near Phalaborwa, Kruger National Park, I noticed a very tiny baby, probably born in the past 12 hours, says Lisl Moolman. The interaction between mother and baby was fascinating. She looked down at her newborn for long periods, while other troop members slowly approached the pair and stared at the baby, almost as if in awe. Image: Lisl Moolman</img>Category finalist: Wildlife Behaviour The metamorphosis of a moulting cricket, Wits Rural Facility, Bushbuckridge, Gauteng. Image: Shivan ParusnathCategory finalist: Wildlife Behaviour The metamorphosis of a moulting cricket, Wits Rural Facility, Bushbuckridge, Gauteng. Image: Shivan Parusnath</img>Category finalist: Wildlife Behaviour Isla de los Lobos (Sea Lion Island), Ushuaia, Argentina, is situated in the Beagle Channel. The island is populated by both South American sea lions and fur seals. A typically windy day out in the channel, with Tierra del Fuego in the back, says Werner Kruse. Image: Werner KruseCategory finalist: Wildlife Behaviour Isla de los Lobos (Sea Lion Island), Ushuaia, Argentina, is situated in the Beagle Channel. The island is populated by both South American sea lions and fur seals. A typically windy day out in the channel, with Tierra del Fuego in the back, says Werner Kruse. Image: Werner Kruse</img>October 2016 public choice winner: Endangered Africa - A majestic elephant bull on the banks of the Levuvhu River, nestled in a magical part of the Kruger National Park Pafuri. The elephant stands beneath the trees, his beauty framed by theirs. The region offers around 80% of the park s diversity in one area yet, the photographer notes, it is undervisited compared with the south. Image: Mike SutherlandOctober 2016 public choice winner: Endangered Africa - A majestic elephant bull on the banks of the Levuvhu River, nestled in a magical part of the Kruger National Park Pafuri. The elephant stands beneath the trees, his beauty framed by theirs. The region offers around 80% of the park s diversity in one area yet, the photographer notes, it is undervisited compared with the south. Image: Mike Sutherland ENTER YOUR WILDLIFE PHOTOS NOWIf you ve snapped some knock-out nature photos, enter them in the Sunday Times Wilderness Photograph of the Year competition and you could be in the running to your share of prizes worth a whopping R600,000! Find out more.