Twenty years ago, our visit to Thailand included a grandstand seat to enjoy a once-in-a-lifetime experience - a spectacular river parade celebrating their beloved King Bhumibol Adulyadej's 50th year on the throne.Even on the way to our spot on the Chao Phraya River, we got stuck in a Bangkok traffic jam for half an hour.Used to this kind of delay, unperturbed Thai drivers left their vehicles to buy food and drinks from the smiling owners of stalls strategically placed at the roadside. Accidental Tourist: One night in Bangkok suits me fineBut it was a very frustrating experience for a coach-load of fuming foreigners, eager not to miss the royal procession on the river.It had been nine years since the fleet of barges turned out for the King's 60th birthday.The day had dawned bright and sunny but meteorologists warned that there could be a storm later in the afternoon.Nothing daunted. Thousands of spectators packed umbrellas with their cameras and headed for the wide river.As our coach began moving again through heavy traffic, I wondered why the Thais preferred a river parade. Several hours were to pass before all was revealed.The grandstand allocated to our group in the Naval Academy was directly opposite the Grand Palace, so we had a superb view as 2,000 oarsmen in bright uniforms escorted King Bhumibol and Queen Sirikit to Wat Arun (the Temple of Dawn) to our right.At 3.30pm, as stormclouds were building ominously over the distant city, a rocket was fired to signal the start of the procession, and the first of 52 barges in five columns came into view.They were all gilded and ornately carved with figureheads of ogres and monkeys featured in Thai literature.The oarsmen's gold- or silver-lacquered paddles kept perfect time to a rhythmic chant beamed over a radio satellite.Only 15 minutes into the procession, and as the king's grandiose vessel approached the temple on our side of the river, huge raindrops began falling.We dashed for cover under a nearby verandah and after about 10 minutes the downpour ended and the floating procession was again bathed in sunshine.I asked my wife to wait for me while I took some more photos but when I went back to find her, she'd gone. The kids will never forget a holiday in ThailandShe explained later that colleagues had persuaded her to board the last one of our South African group's coaches returning to the hotel.Fortunately, I was welcomed onto another coach carrying a British group staying at the same hotel, but it took two hours to inch its way 20km through the congested streets. When it stopped on bridges over the canals, I wished I was on board one of the commuter-loaded water taxis speeding past.I was also sorely tempted to get out and jump onto a passing motor-cycle taxi. They skilfully avoided the traffic jam by riding on the pavement.Arriving at our hotel in the 8pm darkness, I was just in time to stop my tearful wife from showing the police my passport photo.Thanks to the city's traffic chaos, we missed the farewell dinner for our tour group. But I now realise why the friendly Thais prefer the river to the road for their wonderful pageants. Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World'. Send your photos - at least 500KB - and a story of no more than 800 words. All winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za