Head of consultancy, HTA School of Culinary Art and vice-president of the South African Chefs AssociationI would advise aspiring chefs to learn and master the basics first, before trying new techniques. Also, it's important to have a good attitude - be respectful and courteous and have a good work ethic.If you want to be a chef, you need to live every moment as if it were your last. The ultimate guide to SA's best chefs schools 2016Enjoy the adrenaline of the rush of plates leaving the kitchen and landing on your guests' tables. Be prepared to work long hours, which means spending less time with your loved ones, missing out on their birthdays, skipping holidays, and so on.I cope with long hours in the kitchen by delegating tasks and responsibilities to the team and ensuring that every now and again I can take a serious break.One of the highs of my career was being elected one of the vice-presidents of SACA (South African Chefs Association), which represents about 7,000 members. Also, becoming a director of HTA Training &amp; Development , a subsidiary of HTA School of Culinary Art.Graduate from Jackie Cameron School of Food and Wine in KZN Top Student 2016For as long as I can remember, food has been a very big part of my family life. Eating, cooking, creating, sharing a story through a dish. I just love everything about it and am so happy that I have found something I am deeply passionate about and can pursue with all the love I have. I guess you could call it a healthy obsession.</img>Chef Carla Schulze. Image: Ruvan BoshoffChef Carla Schulze. Image: Ruvan BoshoffI feel I was truly blessed to start off my culinary career soaking in such incredible knowledge and being taught by such a remarkable leading South African chef, Jackie Cameron. She is a massive role model to many upcoming young chefs.I now work as a pastry chef with the most inspirational chef I know, Luke Dale Roberts. The way his mind ticks and all the dishes he creates blows my mind every single day.In the Test Kitchen restaurant is this amazing piece of equipment: a little smoking gun. It is the niftiest, coolest little thing. We burn woodchips inside it and out comes this puff of smoke. We've used it on some dishes you would never imagine.As a born and bred South African, nothing quite beats a Nando's quarter chicken, chips and regular coke!One of my favourite ingredients at the moment is bee pollen. Its incredible scent, velvety touch and burst of floral flavor is so magnificent and so treasured.Graduate from The Private Hotel School, StellenboschDuring my studies, an internship at La Residence Hotel &amp; Villas, a five-star establishment in Franschhoek, turned into a permanent position. Baking and patisserie tickled my fancy and I exchanged the hotel environment for that of a tea bar in Stellenbosch.</img>Chef Elni Le Roux. Image: SuppliedChef Elni Le Roux. Image: SuppliedAs my parents are in education, teaching and mentoring also spoke to me so I took up a position as a junior lecturer and event planner at The Private Hotel School. I gained a lot of knowledge which prepared me to start my own business Pretty Patisserie, in Wellington, in the Western Cape in July this year.Patisserie suits my personality because it's a precise art - measurements must be perfect, piping is done carefully and the final decoration should be flawless. Flower-making and iced biscuits are my favourite. The items I produce are elegant with clean lines and the focus is on beauty, simplicity and quality.The best advice I have received is that one should never think that you have reached the ceiling. There are so many areas of expertise in the food industry that it is impossible to know everything and one must learn from others and be open to share one's skills.The food industry is fast-paced, ever changing and extremely trendy. Take time to research new trends, experiment a lot and always look for more sustainable ways of cooking.I love seeing the surprise, excitement and satisfaction on a customer's face.Winner of the HTA School of Culinary Art/Sunday Times bursaryWinning the bursary was the opportunity of a lifetime, it has allowed me to study further to be a chef, a career that I've always dreamt of. It has changed my life, and given me opportunities within the industry, and a platform to prove to other youngsters that there is a better tomorrow.A recent high in my work experience was creating, all by myself, a new dish at my first work- experience kitchen.</img>Student chef Emily Phofedi. Image: Justin BarlowStudent chef Emily Phofedi. Image: Justin BarlowThe most interesting thing I have learnt has been teamwork and pace, as well as to always have a smile on my face - which hasn't been difficult. Since winning the bursary, I have not stopped smiling!Being out on work experience has been rough, fun and a good learning curve.A recipe that stands out in my mind is one that I've made over and over again from my course - Italian panna cotta.The most useful piece of equipment I have used is a whisk. At home we use forks, and I've learnt that a whisk is a game changer.University of Pretoria consumer science graduate and owner of Tashas Cafe in PretoriaA few weeks ago, as I was standing in my soon-to-open restaurant, I realised that dreams do come true. After years of indecisiveness, I finally said yes when Natasha Sideris, owner and founder of Tashas Caf , offered my brother and I the opportunity to own the newly opened Tashas Caf Menlyn Maine in Pretoria.As a little girl, I loved baking and cooking. I enrolled at the University of Pretoria for a degree in Consumer Science Hospitality Management. Fine cooking, nutrition, tourism and business management were my main subjects. It equipped me with the tools to enter the world of chefs and restaurants. After my course, I started working as a chef in a French fine-dining restaurant in Pretoria called Brasserie de Paris. Fearing that I might have to become a teacher if this hospitality business did not work out , I enrolled at Unisa for a teacher's diploma , specialising in hospitality studies and business management.</img>Chef Elze Roome. Image: SuppliedChef Elze Roome. Image: SuppliedI also went to France to study at a pastry school. It gave me the opportunity to work in Paris at the pastry boutique Hugo &amp; Victor and the three-star Michelin restaurant Guy Savoy.On my return, I joined the Tashas head office. It was an exciting but challenging experience, helping open restaurants, including Tashas Dubai. Never would I have imagined that the next Tashas that I would help open would be my own.Tashas Menlyn Maine opened on September 28 and is inspired by the Middle East. This is visible in the interior, and in the food of the Levant. The Levant-inspired menu includes specialties such as baked hummus, homemade Za'atar flat breads, harissa calamari and baklava millefeuille.Try chef Elze's recipe for green shakshuka, an unusual breakfast dish of an egg cooked in the pan with a spicy mix of vegetables.Capsicum Culinary Studio, Cape Town, owner of BillyBoo's Cakery, Cape TownCapsicum Culinary Studio prepared me with all the knowledge needed in the confectionery industry, but nothing prepares you more than experience in a real-life kitchen.I've always loved baking. I remember my brother and I experimenting in the kitchen as children and giving our creations the most bizarre names.</img>Chef Lianne Holt. Image: supplied Chef Lianne Holt. Image: supplied The confectionery business is a tough industry but rewarding. Customers' happy faces and knowing you created that happiness make all the stress worthwhile.My most extravagant bake was a beautiful five-tier cake that had to be delivered along a dirt road to a winelands venue. I cannot explain the relief once the cake had arrived safely.My three favourite bakes are our brownies, cr me br l e profiteroles and macaronuts.I'd encourage an aspirant chef to go into the industry with a positive can-do attitude. Put in the hard work and you will reap the rewards. Follow a path that appeals to you. There are many different arenas that are food related. Do your research and be patient. Attitude is what drives everything.1000 Hills Chefs School, KZN and Unilever Junior Chef of the Year 2016Winning competitions is amazing. I also won the canap section in the Unilever Junior Chef of Year in 2015 and represented South Africa as one of 10 international finalists in the DeliFrance Sandwich World Cup in Paris in March.My biggest challenge as a chef has been gaining confidence in my capabilities - and I've grown enormously, especially through competition work.</img>Student chef Richard Ellis. Image: Supplied Student chef Richard Ellis. Image: Supplied I worked as a barman after doing a mixology course and found my way into the kitchen, intrigued by what the chefs were creating. My curiosity led me to explore this career because I love making new things and learning, and there was so much scope to work with different ingredients.Research, practice and commitment to excellence, and definitely the input from my mentors chef Jade van der Spuy and chef Dixi (Sharmaine Dixon) at 1000 Hills Chef School gave me the winning edge in the Unilever competition.I'm passionate about my training to be a chef because every dish is a chance to create and test new skills. This is a rewarding career and the hard work you put in gets results.Once I'm qualified I plan to get some experience in Europe's great kitchens and hope to travel a lot - perhaps working on yachts as a personal chef.Graduate and lecturer, Chefs Training &amp; Innovation Academy, CenturionI was in the catering and hospitality business for two years and was struggling. My efforts were not yielding the desired results. I realised I needed to upskill and enrolled at the Chefs Training and Innovation Academy (CTIA). With hard work and dedication, doors started opening for me.I thrive on cooking. I find peace in cooking. I find an opportunity to touch people's lives through cooking.I have a passion to influence people's lives and found an opportunity to take up the challenge to teach CTIA foundation students.</img>Chef Twain Tebogo Mafoko. Image: Supplied Chef Twain Tebogo Mafoko. Image: Supplied Cheffing or teaching? This is a challenging question. I am still upskilling myself in this industry and teaching is my preferred journey.My cheffing passion is in the hot and cold kitchen, but I love the challenge of working in the pastry kitchen. One must always break out of the one's comfort zone by taking on challenges.Vegetables are some of my favourite ingredients. I also love paprika and gelatine because one can do so many things with both - especially gelatine.One of my ultimate favourite dishes and one I never get tired of is lamb, slowly braised so the meat is so soft it literally slides off the bone. And any leftovers are good too. I make my own kind of shepherd's pie by shredding leftover lamb and then topping it with sweet potato mash. This is comfort food at its best.