As one of the most indebted countries in the world, with a society that has one of the lowest saving rates, it is high time that we changed our approach to spending during the festive season.According to data management firm Debt Rescue, the majority of South Africans' debt is from taking personal loans and using their credit and store cards.For starters, we cannot continue to fall for the same marketing tactics every year. "Unbeatable prices" or "biggest sale this year" do not mean we have to spend on items we do not need merely because they have been discounted. Even Shoprite's "beat any toy price by 10%" campaign can be tempting. Time to lean on different kinds of chiefsIt is high time we put our resilience muscles to work to avoid being manipulated into unnecessarily excessive spending.We also need to shift our mentality on saving. It should not be viewed as a dreadful activity that stops us from spending as much money as we would like on ourselves and our loved ones. It should be viewed as a gift you are giving yourself and your family. That extra R1000 saved could add tremendous value in the future, especially when invested in interest-generating options.We should stop focusing on what we are saying "no" to when we choose to save, but rather what we are saving "yes" to. When the new year comes and others talk about all the tangible gifts they bought, we can feel content about having rewarded ourselves with the gift of financial freedom. Saving allows us to spend on the things that are important to us, such as a deposit on a house, an education fund, or settling that debt.On the topic of debt, those credit cards need to be put away. There is no value in spending money you do not have, especially during the festive season. Perhaps the best gift you can give yourself this year is to not take on any debt to fund the festivities. There is nothing joyous about digging a hole for yourself that will result in much anxiety and distress when it's time to pay back the money.Some people have brainwashed themselves into believing that they have to spend heaps of money on their loved ones, especially during the festive season. They believe that the more they spend, the more joy they will bring to their families.However, research has overwhelmingly found that true happiness comes from shared experiences and far less so from tangible gifts whose thrill can fade immediately. Authenticity is heartbeat of leadershipExperiences such as going for a picnic or playing games are low-cost alternatives that can bring lasting joy and happiness. With the busy lives that we lead, sometimes simply spending time with our loved ones could be the biggest gift we give.Christmas bonuses are another opportunity to start building wealth. We should avoid raising our standard of living such that our lifestyle absorbs the entire amount - we should keep our living standards constant and use that bonus to generate passive income.For example, a household that puts its annual bonuses into a simple savings account is building wealth. A R100000 bonus put away in December at 10% could mean R10000 additional cash available for the festive season next year - even more if invested in higher-return investment opportunities. Save two years' worth of bonuses, plus the interest, and you are well on your way to multiplying your wealth.This week, all eyes were on Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan's medium-term budget speech, during which he detailed how he intended to keep the economy healthy by tightening our fiscal expenditure.He stressed the need for everyone to collaborate in improving the economy. Let us follow suit by tightening our own belts and avoiding the trap of turning the happy festive season into a splurging season that leads to huge regrets.zipho@ziphosikhakhane.comSikhakhane is an international speaker and an executive at Circle Food Group, with a business honours degree from the University of Cape Town and an MBA from Stanford University