That is a question the sport's rulers and principal participants struggle to answer with any uniform voice. They cannot agree on what it should try to become in the future, or what might be the best path there.It should come as no surprise therefore that those in the sport cannot make up their mind about whether Nico Rosberg would be a good world champion.Not purely in terms of his ability as a driver, which has certainly progressed this year, developing a steelier, more resilient edge - particularly in wheel-to-wheel combat - but in what his status as world champion would do for Formula One.Given that the man people thought would never take a title while teammates with Lewis Hamilton could win a maiden crown in Mexico today, it is a question which will be on most people's lips all weekend. Lorenzo and Rossi agree - they are no longer friendsFormula One boss Bernie Ecclestone has waded in, firing the starting gun on the debate. His view is blunt: showbiz Hamilton is a far easier sell than "boring" family man Rosberg.The two were jointly interviewed last year, with Ecclestone telling Rosberg to his face: "You are bad for my business." Then in Austin, the US, last weekend he went on: "If Nico won the title, it would be good for him and good for Mercedes, but it wouldn't necessarily help the sport because there is nothing to write about him. Even in Germany it wouldn't help."There is an essential element of truth to his point on the evidence of this season so far.Rosberg has been almost deliberately boring. Shows of emotion are almost nonexistent, and he answers questions with a series of stock phrases intended to keep his focus on one race at a time rather than the title.It is working wonderfully but it hardly makes for an interesting story.Some say it is entirely an act, designed to keep performing consistently, and that when he wins the championship, the mask will be torn off.In that moment of elation, having finally overcome a foe he has been second best to for most of his adult life, Rosberg will allow his true feelings to show. Formula One will have the engaging, complex champion it wants.But I am not so sure Rosberg will live up to this prediction. Of course the emotion will run deep having completed the realisation of his life's dream, but that does not necessarily mean he will express it publicly.He is a guarded character and perhaps always will be, winning or losing.As Ecclestone alluded to, a Rosberg triumph is unlikely to even help the sport's faltering popularity in Germany. The reason, as Hamilton put it a couple of years ago when their psychological warfare was in its early stages, is that "Nico is not really German".In truth he is more an international cosmopolitan citizen, spending almost his entire life in Monaco. Germany has not warmed to Rosberg and even a championship might not change that.If reliability demonstrably skews the points tally to such an extent that Rosberg becomes labelled a "lucky champion", then that is also a hard sell for the sport.At this stage, Rosberg has had enough weekends where he has thoroughly outclassed Hamilton (Singapore and Japan spring to mind) that it would not be an injustice for him to win the title. Hamilton opts for charm offensive as hopes recedeBut should Hamilton win the next three races, missing out on the title by a few points, that position will become harder to maintain.One of the best arguments for Rosberg really is the argument against Hamilton. In fairly recent times we had five years in a row of Michael Schumacher, two of Fernando Alonso, and then four of Sebastian Vettel.The latest era has seen Hamilton win two championships and dominate the sport. What good would another Hamilton title this year do? It is unlikely to add to his status or profile around the world. And it will leave Formula One without a fresh narrative for next year.Unless Red Bull thrive under new aerodynamic regulations, next season could be another straight fight between the Mercedes pair. In which case, at least if Rosberg wins this year it leaves Hamilton trying to fight back next year.The battle gains a fresh intensity and dynamic. Whereas if the Englishman wins, then the start of next season will seem wearily similar to the previous two.Perhaps the strongest case for why Rosberg is a good champion is that it would represent a triumph of resilience, of sheer force of will in overcoming the bigger talent.Rosberg has applied himself magnificently this year, finding new levels of mental resolve to come back after two years of being beaten by Hamilton.The crushing defeat last year must have been especially hard to take.