Spoiler alert: This article contains spoilers for season one of 'Narcos'.JENNIFER PLATT SAYS: Most of what we watch on TV is political commentary in some way or the other - even if it is censored (maybe especially when it is censored).There s no censorship on Netflix but Narcos is all about the political zeitgeist of the moment, yet it is set in the 1980s.It s all about the danger of one man s massive ego and importance, about a megalomaniac, a larger-than-life character who rises to prominence and wants to be the president of the country and will do anything to obtain that, about how the people are duped into believing that he has their best interests at heart, about how his populist politics are not welcome in the higher echelons of those in parliament.The best part of the story though is about how a few good/bad agents plan to take him down. There s a lot of blood, skop, skiet en donder.4DX is the reason to get off your couch & go to the cinemaIt is in actual fact a fictionalised account of how DEA agents Steve Murphy (Boyd Holbrook) and Javier Pena (Pedro Pascal) form a special team to hunt down Colombian drug kingpin Pablo Escobar (Wagner Moura). It s enthralling from the very first five minutes in season one where Murphy narrates about how apt it is that magic realism began in Colombia: Magical realism is defined as what happens when a highly detailed, realistic setting is invaded by something too strange to believe. There is a reason magical realism was born in Colombia. It s amazing how one forgets just what Escobar and pals got up to in those cray cray years when they ruled Colombia as the Medellin cocaine cartel. And just why television shows such as Miami Vice came to be Fact is as strange as fictionalised TV. Scenes of real live news coverage is interjected into the intricate plot to show that this stuff really did happen. President Ronald Reagan and Nancy did broadcast to America from their cosy living room in the White House warning their citizens about the dangers of drugs and to just say no . Miami Florida was the eye of the storm, with bad mullets, turned-up blazers and pastel T-shirts, discos on every corner and kilos of cocaine streaming into the coast on a daily basis. Thousands of people did die in the drug wars.Escobar did build his own prison with his own guards where prostitutes and international footballers were daily guests. He did have numerous houses where he had the world s biggest private collection of animals from hippos to camels. He did willy nilly kill people net so.It s a story that s so frighteningly real. We live in the DEA s worlds for a bit and then Escobar s.Once in a while there are moments that are cheesy. Sometimes it uncannily resembles the fictional film that was Vinnie Chase s disastrous passion project in season 4 of the TV show Entourage. There are scenes of Escobar and his brother smoking weed, looking towards the mountain range, making their evil plans and one cannot help but compare this to how in their fictional film Medellin, Vinnie and his brother Johnny Drama would ve squinted their eyes, looked into the sunset, popped their boeps and waxed lyrical. It s a bit awkies.Besides those moments though, the acting is phenomenal. Brazilian Moura makes a cold and ruthless Escobar. He keeps one entranced.WATCH the trailer for season two of 'Narcos': YOLISA MKELE SAYS:If there is one lesson that the life of the estimable Pablo Escobar teaches us (as revealed by the Netflix series Narcos), it s that the key to life is to have sensible career goals. Never mind all of that stable job accountant malarkey the career you really need is to become the head of one of the largest cocaine trafficking cartels in history.Now one may think that there are some obvious drawbacks to this career and you would be right. There is a high probability that the police are going to be decidedly unfriendly to you, people will shoot at you and you may well end up dying on a rooftop with one shoe on and much paunch exposed but let us explore the positives for a moment.The end of season one of Narcos saw Mr Escobar in jail which is ostensibly a negative. That is until you remember that being the world champion of drug dealers comes with a whole lot of perks, one of which being that prison is well supplied with hookers, cocaine and general levels of debauchery worthy of a 70 s rock star. Its other perk was that you could simply walk out and that is where we join Escobar in season two.If you are not caught up, spoiler alert, the first season was all about the Escobar s rise and the obscene amounts of money he was making, some estimate $60million per day. In it you see a man go from being dirt poor to having to bury money in the ground because he was making too much to launder. That kind of change in fortune brings about predictable bouts of megalomania only amplified to the point where he blows up the Justice Department and then tries to play the role of the victim.</img>'Narcos' tells the true story of notorious drug kingpin Pablo Escobar, who became a billionaire through the production and distribution of cocaine. Image: Netflix 'Narcos' tells the true story of notorious drug kingpin Pablo Escobar, who became a billionaire through the production and distribution of cocaine. Image: Netflix Watching the show, one cannot help but be impressed with Escobar s temerity. This is a man essentially threatened to burn a country to the ground to get what he wanted and Wagner Moura (who plays Escobar) conveys that kind of hyper aggressive hubris brilliantly. Listening to him swear conjures images of a bull spitting bile and feces as the red mist descends.Where the first season was about the rise, the second reads more like a documentary on the collapse of the Roman Empire. Escobar s hubris eventually destroys him but not before some scenes of spectacular violence, and oddly enough, genuine humanity. In fact the whole of season two seems to unsubtly hint that, Pablo is just an angry misunderstood teddy bear who loves his family. He may blow up unoffending pharmacies for his family but hey, some dads are overprotective like that.Now at first glance all of this may seem like a good reason not to become a drug kingpin but the fact is that Pablo Escobar lived an entertaining life. He never spent time clock watching in a cubicle grumbling about Telkom service. He never had to wear an uncomfortable suit all day because the company valued conformity. He didn t even have to spend his days explaining to strangers that being a blogger is in fact a real job.No Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria spent his days dealing with hippopotamus complications, outsmarting law enforcement and blowing things up. Those are all of the fun things kids pretend to do when they play outside. More than that, Escobar s job allowed him to evade historical anonymity. No one ever made gripping dramas about that nice young GP your gran used to go to back in 73. Escobar is a reminder that, maybe using different methods, one should make one s life a story so that in a few decades television companies can profit from it. Narcos is downloadable on Netflix or for hire from good DVD stores.