Describe your brand in three words.Uncomplicated, urban, South African.How did De Steyl come about?De Steyl was established in 1990 by an architect and a master craftsman to address the need for designed products that break the mould of traditional furniture-making in the Garden Route.What is the story behind the name?It's the names of founders Janiel De Kock and Johan Steyl combined. The signature on the De Steyl brand is mine.How does your design process work?I play with ideas in a sketchbook and then make a prototype. As soon as the idea becomes an object, it takes on a life of its own and the process becomes play rather than work.</img>De nne Viljoen of George-based De Steyl. Image: SuppliedDe nne Viljoen of George-based De Steyl. Image: SuppliedHow are the materials you use significant?We use 100% sustainable Birch plywood that is beautiful, strong and stable. It is the perfect product for our type of modular furniture.Your favourite product and why?The Delicious Pink chest of drawers from my Play Play Pattern collaboration with Ren e Rossouw. The balance between her bold liquorice patterns on the sides and the simplicity of my composition on the face is just right.How do your products differ from other brands?Playfulness. We don't take ourselves too seriously and always try to make people smile. Even when you strip away all the colour and patterns, my design is fun to use, well-proportioned and functional - a vernacular of sorts.Designers who inspire you?In general, people who design the world they want to live in, like Charles and Ray Eames, and Gawie and Gwen Fagan.What new product does the world need? An affordable and accessible modular home, designed to be energy efficient and sustainable and that can be adapted to different environments.Trends you love?African-inspired design and the use of colour.Trends you hate?When the work of designers is copied without their philosophy and process being understood. Spotlight on designA design tip you can offer readers?Buy only what you can live with for the rest of your life. Consider longevity.Why buy local furniture?We have a rich tradition of quality furniture making in SA. Supporting local design helps to establish businesses and brands that are authentic and globally competitive.What are you working on?I recently launched my Int Collection at 100% Design South Africa and have just shown my patterned 2D0 Stackable Storage cabinets in a collaboration with Ren e Rossouw Studio at Maison &amp; Objet in Paris.Good design is...not negotiable.