The 58-year-old Telkom chairman, who has just been appointed president of Business Leadership South Africa on top of his role as president of Business Unity South Africa, has led a desperate government-business-labour initiative to avert a credit downgrade.One of the chief concerns expressed in New York was over Gordhan's future as finance minister, he says.He sat shoulder to shoulder with the finance minister, assuring ratings agencies and 200 of the largest US investors that South Africa's economy was in safe hands and Gordhan was going nowhere.So did he feel betrayed?"I felt very numb, very frustrated, very disappointed and very concerned."He says it has undermined everything he and his team, which includes Treasury officials and the CEOs of some of South Africa's top companies, have been working hard to achieve for nine months."It has not been helpful. There was excitement and euphoria because we'd just come from a very successful trip to New York. And then this happened."It has strengthened perceptions, which Team SA was at pains to dispel in New York, that the National Treasury is under threat.Manyi hits out at CEO pledgeThe institutional strength of the Treasury is one of the strongest bulwarks against a downgrade, he says. "Now we need to try to dispel renewed perceptions that it is being threatened. For us to do this we need to continuously engage those people who are threatening Treasury."This was the purpose of the pledge signed by the CEOs of South Africa's top companies and published in newspapers last Sunday. "To point out that these are the things we stand for, and these are the things we think are wrong and stand against," says Mabuza.Prominent among the latter are "politically motivated prosecutions".The NPA's destructive move against Gordhan so soon after Mabuza and his team's hard-won gains in New York seems to confirm the view of AngloGold Ashanti chairman Sipho Pityana that as long as Jacob Zuma remains president, any efforts by business to avert a downgrade are as useful as spitting into the wind.Pityana has sharply criticised Mabuza and his CEO Initiative for not insisting on the removal of Zuma as a condition of their partnership with the government to avert a downgrade."I don't believe in conditional relations," says Mabuza.Business has stated clearly what it stands for and against and cannot be expected to do more than that.Those who think it can lay down conditions overestimate the extent of its influence over the government, he says."It is not my place to call for the removal of the president. My place is to work with government and labour and point out to government what is not helpful to us in the work we are doing. I cannot decide that Zuma should no longer be the president."But Mabuza accepts the criticism of political analyst Moeletsi Mbeki that business should have woken up much earlier to the looming crisis of a credit downgrade."For some time we as business have been very narrow in our interests, taking a view that our business is just business."But we have woken up. We are doing the things we are doing. Better late than never."He says there has been a long-overdue realisation by business and the government that they need each other."Business people do need politicians of a particular ilk, and politicians do need business. It has been demonstrated in our country that adversity makes us realise just how much we need each other." I live on the basis that the president has said he has confidence in the minister, and that he has expressed his concern about what is happening Right now, business leaders need the government to deliver on the commitments they have given to the ratings agencies. It has not done so yet, he says, and time is running out.What is the bare minimum the government needs to do?When the ratings agencies were in South Africa in May, they said they needed policy certainty around renewable energy and mining, improved governance at state-owned enterprises and more investment in the small-business sector."These are the things we said we would do."None of their undertakings has been met."In renewable energy, the government has continued to cause more confusion with its policies, saying one thing and Eskom saying another."We said we will put to bed the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act. We have not done much of that."We also spoke about the SOEs. We've got maybe half a point there." Why so many will be rooting for GordhanBusiness has committed R1.5-billion to fund small-business development, but red tape is still significantly hampering efforts to boost the sector."There are things business had to do and things government had to do. We have done what we had to do. The government has not done its bit."These are things we have not been able to deliver on. And these are the things that are definitely going to affect our chances. A bare minimum is policy certainty, specifically on energy, mining and labour reform."On these things there has not been much progress. We continue to shout for it, and will continue to make sure that if nothing else, the president understands the consequences."One senses strongly that Mabuza believes the game is up, but dare not admit it even to himself. Certainly not in the media. "All I am saying is that we are concerned. We understand this is serious and we are in injury time. There are things that must happen or it is game over for us as an economy."He feels business has done what it can. He talks about the CEO pledge as though it might be the final throw of the dice. It is now up to the government to do its bit, he says. And so far it has not.He pins his hopes on Gordhan's medium-term budget statement, delivered on Wednesday, the day after this interview with Business Times.Doesn't it make a nonsense of whatever the finance minister might say if he demonstrably does not have the confidence or support of the president?"I will not second-guess the president," says Mabuza. "He has stated that he has confidence in the minister."Is the NPA likely to have acted against Gordhan on the eve of his critically important budget speech without the president's consent at the very least?"I choose not to enter into that space. It's enough for me to hear the president saying he has confidence in Gordhan as the finance minister and to hear Gordhan say he is not resigning, he is going to continue to do his work."I have to believe what the president says. If I am believing a lie, so be it. It keeps me going, it makes it possible for me to keep rallying business people."I can only go out with the team in the belief that our story is a doable and a sellable story. I don't think there is much more I could do."Does he share the nation's terrible fear that each day might be Gordhan's last in office? Business spots ray of hope after mini-budget ..."I live on the basis that the president has said he has confidence in the minister, and that he has expressed his concern about what is happening."Mabuza says it is not his place or that of business to ask Zuma for any guarantees regarding Gordhan's future."We will continue to say how we feel about this minister and this Treasury and the good work that they are doing, and we will continue to pray and hope that the president will not change the minister for someone who is less capable and enjoys less confidence."He makes no bones about the consequences for South Africa if Gordhan is fired."They'd be dire."Confidence in the country's immediate future would all but vanish. "And people only place their money in an environment they have confidence in."It would cost South Africa a lot of pain and a lot of money. It would certainly harm the economy and society."And the fallout would continue for a very long time."We are continuously working to prevent the minister being fired."The trouble is, ratings agencies need certainty, and this is something that Mabuza and his team seem in less of a position to give them now than ever before.So can he point to any progress at all?"Gordhan is still in office. A lot of people said he would be gone by this day. But tomorrow [Wednesday this week] he is delivering the budget. That works for me."