One of the things I love most about cooking shows is how they expand my vocabulary. It's not so much that they teach me new words, but that they educate me in novel ways of using the old ones.The first episode of the new Great South African Bake Off was no exception. The last time I heard the word "crack" thrown around so frequently over the course of an hour of television, I was watching The Wire. In Bake Off land, though, "crack" refers to something more benign: the way a madeira cake splits at the top when you do it right.Dot Dicks on life after the 'The Great South African Bake Off'The opening of the baking show's second season was all about the crack and the crumb. "Crumb" is used in the singular, similar to how fashion folk talk about "a trouser". "The crumb looks quite tight," said judge Shirley. "Your crack has gone in," warned judge Tjaart.Presenter Anne Hirsch is back. Her co-host has been replaced with chef Lentswe Bhengu, presumably in the hope that he will eventually come out with something knowledgeable about food. He hasn't yet, but has shown himself quite proficient at giving comforting hugs to weepy amateur bakers.The two judges haven't changed a bit. Head boy Tjaart is still barking out his laugh and machine-gunning words such as "unctuous" and "voluptuous". Headmistress Shirley is still ready to give you detention if your crumb isn't moist enough."That was very nearly fudge," she said ominously, after forking cake into her mouth. I failed to see why this should be a criticism, but I'm not a professional baker.'The Great SA Bake Off': Motshidisi s Blueberry & lemon Madeira loaf recipeHirsch, as usual, seems to be having the most fun. "Frankly, madeira, I don't give a damn," she quipped at one point. It was the finest crack of the episode.We have some of last season's contestants back in different forms. There's the no-nonsense middle-aged white woman. There's the headscarved Muslim woman. There's the artsy Capetonian. Prison worker Leon was a unique new character, but he's already been sent back to jail.In the "showstopper" portion of the first episode, the judges ordered contestants to create "a throwback to the '70s". I was hoping this would mean something truly retro and disgusting, like a creepy fish blancmange, but it turned out to be a Black Forest gateau.I'd be lying if I said the new season of The Great South African Bake Off has been a high-octane, mega-thrills affair thus far. But then again, that's hardly the point.The show's greatest appeal lies in presenting you with an alternate universe where everything is nice and nothing worse than a flopped cake seems possible. State capture? Fee protests? They can just bake off.