Jacaranda trees are not native to Africa (they originated in South America) and are believed to have arrived in Gauteng in 1888, quickly becoming so popular that they were planted along almost every new street built in the rapidly growing cities of Johannesburg and Pretoria.The purple-leafed plants have found their way into local mythology and students joke that if you haven't started revising for your end-of-year exams by the time the jacarandas bloom, you've left it too late.Jacarandas are now officially listed as a category three alien invader species, meaning they may no longer be planted. So to see the spectacular spring blossoms, you need to head to the older suburbs. JOBURG'S BEST JACARANDA STREETS ROSEBANKTake a stroll along Tyrwhitt Avenue, on either side of Oxford Road, and enjoy their lavender-tinged shade.PARKWOODIn the suburbs of Parkwood and neighbouring Saxonwold, take a drive (or stroll) along Bath Avenue and make a left (or right) on any of these gorgeous purple-canopied streets: Bristol, Wantage, Griswold and Rutland.SAXONWOLDFollow Riviera Road up from the M1 past Killarney towards the Ditsong Museum of Military History for a purple-fringed view of the War Memorial.WESTCLIFFThis grand suburb set atop Westcliff Ridge is where many of Joburg's mining "Randlords" built their mansions at the turn of the century. The Westcliff steps (210 in total), dubbed the "stairway to heaven", can be accessed via Crescent Drive or the intersection of Wicklow Avenue and Westcliff Drive (pedestrian entrance). At the top, you'll be rewarded with a view of the urban forest.</img>Jacaranda trees originated in South America. Image: ELIZABETH SEJAKEJacaranda trees originated in South America. Image: ELIZABETH SEJAKEMELVILLEThe pretty suburb of Melville is full of jacarandas, many of them contrasting spectacularly with bright pink bougainvillea. 4th Avenue is a particular hotspot.GREENSIDEWhen driving through Greenside, take a detour down quiet Clovelly Road (parallel to Barry Herzog Avenue), bordering the suburb of Emmarentia.HOUGHTONMunro Drive, which winds its way across the Observatory Ridge in Houghton, is a scenic, historic street lined with mature jacaranda trees and epic views over the northern suburbs.LINKSFIELDFollow the main thoroughfare of Club Street through the suburb of Linksfield and take a right on Bedford Street, which becomes Linksfield Drive. The views get steadily more impressive as the road winds its way up the steep Linksfield Ridge.KENSINGTONDrive through a spectacular purple tunnel along Highland Road in this historic suburb. Nearby Juno Street also has a remarkable display. This is one of the most famous jacaranda areas in Gauteng. WHERE TO ENJOY THE VIEW FROM ON HIGH FOUR SEASONS HOTEL THE WESTCLIFFFor coffee, lunch or sundowners with a panoramic purple view, you can't beat the terrace at this luxury hotel.Visit: 67 Jan Smuts Avenue, Westcliff, phone 011-481-6000 or log on to Four Seasons.Restaurant review: EB Social Kitchen & Bar, JoburgEB SOCIAL KITCHENThe Exclusive Books store in Hyde Park Corner has to be one of our favourite bookshops with excellent coffee and a great book selection. Its pi ce de r sistance, however, is the outstanding view from the casual and contemporary EB Social Kitchen &amp; Bar.Visit: Hyde Park Corner, corner Jan Smuts Avenue and William Nicol Drive, Craighall, phone 011-268-6039.MELVILLE KOPPIESHike the Melville Koppies for views of purple jacarandas against the backdrop of Joburg's distinctive downtown skyscrapers. The best way to explore the koppies is on one of the regular weekend guided walks.Visit: Corner Judith and Orange roads, Melville, phone 011-482-4797 or log on to Melville Koppies. Hike costs R50, R20 for kids.L RON HUBBARD HOUSETo see the trees from a different angle, the view from the former home of L Ron Hubbard (the founder of Scientology) in Observatory is extraordinary.Visit: 40 Hannaben St, Cyrildene, phone 011-054-0540 or log on to L Ron Hubbard Heritage Site.MARBLEOn the rooftop of a new development along Rosebank's Art Gallery Row, much-awarded chef David Higgs' sizzling, live-fire grill house and bar has spectacular views across Joburg towards the Magaliesberg.Trumpet building, cnr Keyes Ave and Jellicoe Ave, Rosebank, phone 010-594-5550 or log on to Marble Restaurant. Originally published in 'Johannesburg In Your Pocket City Guide', available in print, online and as an app. See Johannesburg.inyourpocket.com.