Black lava salt, pink salt, red salt, smoked salt, truffle salt, desert salt, cooking on salt blocks. No longer is salt the humble seasoning that we religiously add to all recipes in a supporting role to highlight other flavours; with gourmet salt as the seasoning du jour, it has become a star on the plate.Salt is a mineral consisting mostly of sodium chloride (NaCl), and humans need it for survival. Not only do our nervous systems need it to function, but it has preserved life by preserving food since ancient times. Salt is either harvested directly from seawater or from rock-salt deposits formed by the evaporation of earlier seas leaving layers of salt beneath the earth. The salt is extracted from water either by rapid vacuum evaporation or more traditional solar evaporation, while solution mining is used for most rock salt. Watermelon with gin drizzle & spicy salts"White gold" was once as valuable to civilization as oil is today. It was hard to extract and process, and large quantities were needed. It was particularly important in cold climates, where curing meats, salting fish and pickling vegetables were required to survive the long freezing winters.Salt was so valuable that it was used as payment for Roman soldiers - the origin of the word "salary". Several words (salad, sauce and sausage) actually share this common Latin root, all connected to salt.Salt's ability to preserve food made it a basic human need that governments around the world abused to fill their coffers. They argued that as a natural resource it belonged to the state and therefore could be taxed. Heavily.Such taxes met fierce opposition from ordinary people across the globe. In France, the controversial gabelle salt tax was said to have contributed to the 1789 Revolution, while in India Gandhi's Salt March brought his country a step closer to independence from Britain.Salt's role as preservative is less important today and it is rather appreciated for the unique savouriness and textures it creates. We love salt for the addictive taste that has us eating a bag of biltong instead of a few slices. Salt's real magic, however, is its ability to act as a flavour enhancer. Salt allows flavours to blossom. Butter ice cream with salted chocolate sauceIt is this magical attribute that is apparently to blame for the fact that we consume far too much of it and are apparently eating ourselves to death. According to the World Health Organisation, non-communicable diseases are the main contributor to mortality and morbidity globally, and elevated sodium intake is associated with a number of them including hypertension, cardiovascular disease and strokes. The WHO recommends that adults consume no more than 5g of sodium a day.The salt shaker on the table or the elegant Maldon seasoning on a salad is not the culprit; it's processed food in which salt is used extensively as a cheap flavour enhancer.Newspapers reported last year that South Africans have a particular attraction to salt and that South Africa's McDonald's franchises sell some of the saltiest Big Mac burgers in the world. According to a report by World Action on Salt and Health, local Big Macs are the fourth saltiest in the world with 2.47g salt per burger.But South Africa has been praised for legislation passed two years ago that forced food producers to reduce the amount of salt in products such as bread, butter, breakfast cereals, potato crisps, ready-to-eat snacks, processed meat, soup powder, gravy powder, two-minute noodles, stock cubes and jelly.My favourite salts include Oryx Desert Salt from the Kalahari - I love that it is available in different textures and flavours, and most importantly that it is local - and Baleni Sacred Salt from Limpopo, another proudly South African salt with a magical story.