That's the warning from social media law expert Emma Sadleir, in reaction to insurers introducing social media liability cover this week.It's a new concept in South Africa, aimed at protecting the "average Joe", including parents, against costly lawsuits.The insurance policies won't protect you if you make racial, cultural or religious slurs. Christmas in Mauritian jail after island tragedyMost people would regard the policy as "complete madness", but "we are entering a new world", Sadleir said. "I think there is so much craziness that's going on with social media at the moment that people are starting to turn to the law. If one of my family asked me if they should buy it, I would say: 'No ... raise your children better.'"But, that said, litigation is incredibly expensive. The damages relating to defamation are relatively low in South Africa, but where the costs come in are the legal fees," she said.In a recent incident, Centurion businessman Paul Hechter sued his neighbour Michelle Benade for R1.3-million in the High Court in Pretoria for defaming him on Facebook after he complained about her chickens and hordes of rabbits in a "dirty and smelly cage" next to his wall.In retaliation, she posted his photo on Facebook, labelling him "perverse", which he claimed sparked hate mail.In February, Benade was ordered to apologise and retract her statements. Hechter is still claiming R1.3-million in damages. The case is continuing.When it comes to children posting libellous remarks, Sadleir is inundated with parents instructing her to send letters to children warning them to refrain."It is becoming a big thing. There's a lot of compromising Instagram posts. In South Africa, you have civil capacity from the age of 13, so you can be sued for defamation from that age. I wouldn't advise parents to get this insurance; I would advise parents to wake up."Not all parents like the idea of social media liability cover. Crooked cop flossed out Cop admitted to hospital after his arrest in 'blackmail' caseVanessa Narotam of Durban will hear nothing of it. "I'm big on teaching my kids about actions and consequences. I don't believe that they should be allowed to say things on social media that are defamatory without owning those words and thinking that they are covered by insurance."A father who did not want to be identified said: "The only payment issued will be my belt on their butts if they ever post anything derogatory."However, Cape Town father Cedric Mboyisa is keen to take out the cover to protect his daughter, Naledi, 9. "I'd definitely consider such insurance cover ... it's a good one to have, especially for those who tend to think freedom of expression is absolute, which is not true."Simon Colman, head of commercial solutions at SHA Specialist Underwriters, said his company launched a policy this week to cover legal costs and damages for when a policyholder (or their children) defamed someone. "We have made a conscious decision not to cover allegations of racism or bigotry."Kerry Curtin, a manager with insurer Aon, said: "For parents, the risks associated with social media use are substantial."David Luyt, of law firm Michalsons, said high-profile cases involving defamatory comments on social media had raised awareness of the problem. "However, the line between the right to freedom of expression and defamatory comments remains a difficult one to judge and people need guidance."govendersu@sundaytimes.co.za