Dermatologist Dr Marianne Duvenage, who has studied the benefits of the sunshine vitamin, said while we should be careful of sun exposure, we should not shun the sun completely.We need D3 for strong bones, to ward off depression and some forms of cancer, and it is good for the metabolism, heart and cardiovascular system, she said."Vitamin D3 is actually a hormone. It is made in the skin when cholesterol is exposed to the ultraviolet B rays of the sun. So, this is a real shocker, but you need to expose your skin to the sun," said Duvenage (see guidelines below).Should you use homemade skin creams? "It is estimated that more than a billion people on the planet have a vitamin D deficiency. It leads to bone weakening or osteomalacia, which causes hip fractures in older people. Vitamin D3 is essential in the formation of strong bones as it absorbs calcium from the gut."Duvenage said that constantly wearing sunscreen, which blocks UVB rays, meant the body did not form vitamin D3."Recently, we heard of young people in Australia being diagnosed with rickets, which is a vitamin D deficiency disease, leading to weak bones, short stature and bow legs. I have seen a young lady, 28 years old and a road runner, who fractured her femur during a race because her vitamin D3 levels were too low. This is a tragedy," said Duvenage.Vitamin D can ward off depression."It is an anti-depressant. Lack of sun exposure is implicated in the development of seasonal affective disorder which is prevalent in the northern hemisphere," said Duvenage.Although there is the sun scare factor of skin cancer, controlled exposure to the sun actually protects the skin from skin cancer and internal cancers, she said."There is a correlation between the thickness of a newly diagnosed melanoma - the potentially killer form of skin cancer - and the level of vitamin D in the body. The lower the vitamin D level, the thicker the melanoma at diagnosis. For patients who have been diagnosed with cancer, the spread of the melanoma to other organs will be quicker in patients who have lower vitamin D levels than patients who have optimum levels."She says the vitamin is also linked to the thyroid gland and hormone function. "It plays a role in the sugar and insulin metabolism and can make the difference between optimum sugar control or not. Vitamin D3 is also essential for a healthy heart and cardiovascular system." How to get your vital dose of vitamin D3 Dr Marianne Duvenage answers some frequently asked questionsHow much sun to get and when?In the early morning or late afternoon, minimal UVB reaches us. We are then mostly exposed to UVA, the longer wavelength ray, which causes skin cancer.So we need exposure to UVB when the sun is higher than 45 above the horizon, between 10am and 3pm. Be aware though, that UVA is also very high between 10am and 3pm. Expose as large a part of your skin as possible for a short period, five to 10 minutes, during this time of day while not wearing sunscreen, except on your face. You only need to do this two or three times a week.This way you are getting a "sunbath" and the benefit of vitamin D formation without undue risk. Your skin will make about 10,000IUs [international units] of vitamin D in 30 minutes of sun. Thereafter, the cholesterol is depleted and you will be at risk for sunburn. Please note: the advice is not to go out and bask in the sun for hours! Be very careful.Exercise may offset health risks of drinking: studyCan you supplement and how much?Have your vitamin D levels checked with a blood test. The normal range is 30-100ng/ml, but the optimum value is at least 50-60ng/ml. If you have been diagnosed with cancer, this value should be at least 80-90ng/ml. Very low levels mean you could have a spontaneous fracture. If a blood test is not an option, you can safely take 2000IUs per day, long term.Vitamin D comes in at least two forms, vitamin D2 (ergo-calciferol) and D3 (chole-calciferol). Vitamin D2 is inactive in the human body and we need to change it into vitamin D3, the active form, with sun exposure. Cheaper supplements all provide vitamin D2. I do not suggest using them.Sun according to skin typeA large part of the white South African population have a genetic problem that makes them unable to produce vitamin D in the skin. For these people it is no use trying to boost vitamin D levels with sun exposure.The darker your skin, the more sun you need to form vitamin D. Dark-skinned individuals who are also using sunscreen to prevent ageing of the skin are especially at risk to become vitamin D deficient.What about food?It is difficult to get enough vitamin D from food. A portion of salmon supplies only about 200IUs, so you will need to eat a lot of (very expensive) fish for your daily quota of 2,000IUs.