The problem with writing about Donald Trump is that he moves so fast. There have been several biographies squeezed out in record time since he announced his candidacy for president. All of them are now out of date.In the past month we have learnt that in some years he may have paid no federal income taxes; he has boasted about grabbing women "by the p***y", and now faces accusations of sexual assault. By the time this article is published - who knows?But if you think The Donald is an enigma, you're wrong. He misbehaves in plain sight. The former owner of Miss Universe has been nakedly chauvinist for decades, and his political ambitions are just as old. 'He just want his face everywhere' Donald Trump not a New York favouriteIn 1987, he published a (ghostwritten) memoir called The Art of the Deal, which was surprisingly critical of incumbent president Ronald Reagan - hero of conservative Republicans. Trump, a showbiz obsessive who once considered becoming a movie producer, graded Reagan as "a smooth performer" but wondered if there was "anything beneath that smile".Reagan and Trump were, at first glance, very different men. Reagan makes one think of family values and small government; Trump of womanising and authoritarianism. But as recent books on Trump and a brilliant new biography of Reagan show, they were both fans of big money, hyper-patriots and - crucially - the product of the light entertainment industry. Trump is not a rejection of the Republican tradition. He's part of the family.Reagan was born in 1911. Throughout his presidency, Reagan cited his youth as a time of purity and decency. But, as Iwan Morgan shows in his superbly researched Reagan: American Icon, it was more complicated than that. His father was a drunk.Ronnie's first taste of showbiz was as a sports announcer. Wanting more, he moved to Hollywood in 1937, where he was courted aggressively by rising star Jane Wyman. He only gave in to marriage when she attempted an overdose. On Warner Bros's payroll, Reagan played himself - a Middle American boy, often touched by tragedy - until the war interrupted his career, diverting him into training films.His first trip abroad was to Britain and it was instrumental in his conversion to conservatism. Reagan did not like London. He said it smelt of "cow dung and coal soot". He was disgusted by the regulations and unions. FBI drops e-mail bombshell spells trouble for HillaryLater, Reagan would insist that he never left the Democratic Party - which he had once endorsed so avidly - but that it had left him by embracing socialist collectivism. In fact, Reagan was the man on the move - to the libertarian right. He helped break the communist-sympathising unions in Hollywood and gave evidence to Congress on Marxist infiltration.After Wyman left him, he played the field, bedding starlets. By the '60s he had settled down with the wife of his dreams, Nancy Davis, who was enthusiastic about his political aspirations.Reagan's fans saw him as the voice of principled conservatism, but Morgan shows that, as president, his willingness to compromise was symbolised by the growing national debt. Reagan wanted tax cuts and more defence spending. The Democrats wanted to protect welfare. They compromised by having all three. His achievements, though, were real: sustained jobs growth, falling inflation, big jumps in earnings.Reagan's '80s spawned the yuppie. Enter, Donald John Trump, born in 1946 to a wealthy Queens landlord. A naughty, pugnacious boy, Trump still made it to an Ivy League college and took over the family business. He wanted to break ground in a city, New York, most had written off as a bad investment.In Trump Revealed, Michael Kranish and Marc Fisher argue that his first bit of bad luck was the making of him. One of his blocks in Brooklyn refused a vacancy to a black man but, a few hours later, offered the same apartment to his white wife. The Justice Department filed a discrimination suit in 1973. Fascinating and horrifyingTrump settled out of court. But, crucially, he could say he had never admitted fault and escaped public opprobrium. It established a pattern: if attacked, Trump hit back harder.Like Reagan's, his life is a mix of concrete and myth. David Cay Johnston's The Making of Donald Trump argues that he misrepresented his income, pretending it was the value of his assets. When the '90s recession hit, Trump was massively overleveraged. His bankruptcies and bailouts showed the reality of Reaganomics. By the millennium, Trump was an embarrassing reminder of a tasteless era. What saved him is what made Reagan: light entertainment.In 2002, he was invited to play the boss in The Apprentice. He wasn't supposed to feature heavily, but proved a natural.Even if support for Trump seems extraordinary in its crudity and revolutionary fervour, these books suggest it was predictable. The US imagination is shaped by television.It is a consumerist society that lionises businessmen. Throw in nationalism, and his candidacy appears compelling. More than that: his public image is not a repudiation of Reaganism but was shaped by the gaudy, shameless aspiration that Reagan unleashed.- The Daily Telegraph, London