Guardiola's judgment was questioned when he demanded City spend 47.5-million to sign Stones from Everton in the summer, even though he had failed to play a single minute for England at the European Championships and had been ridiculed for his form at club level.But the Spaniard never doubted Stones and insisted he was not surprised he emerged from the internationals as England's best player.Koeman was at his peak as a teammate of Guardiola at the Nou Camp and the City manager said his friend had permanently altered perceptions of how the game can be played as a ball-playing centreback, as comfortable in midfield as defence."I think he was one of the first central defenders with the quality not just to defend," said Guardiola as he prepares to go head-to-head with Koeman for the first time as either a manager or player."Johann Cruyff bought Koeman to show us, to teach us why we need a central defender like Ronald. He was one of the few guys that I never saw fail in important games, he never went missing - he always played well. I never saw him play a bad, bad game in the Champions League or against Real Madrid."His quality was that he was not just big and strong like a centreback who can defend, he could also hit these amazing long balls, 40 metres [makes swishing noise] quick balls. By far one of the best central defenders I've ever met."Asked whether Stones was the heir to Koeman and should be watching tapes of him play, Guardiola nodded his appreciation at the comparison."They're quite similar in the sense that they both like to play the ball," Guardiola explained. "Normally, a central defender is a big guy who plays with the head and marks man to man and is strong in the air. We need that, of course."But now it's the added plus of the quality of his play. John has similarities to Ronald, especially in terms of mentality. John is a guy who wants to play under pressure. Normally, the players who like to play the ball, handle the pressure better than the other ones."I cannot compare the student [to the master] now. Not yet. Maybe in the future. The long balls are always. Wow. Ronald was the best ever at that, but John is young enough that he can improve."I am so glad that he played for the national team, and did well. In the last European Cup [Euro 2016], he didn't play one minute."Now he's playing all the games, and he's becoming an important player for the national team. I am so happy about that. I'm not surprised he has fitted in quickly because he's good."There's no secrets, in football the good players adapt quickly and John is good and adapts quick."Guardiola also revealed that City captain Vincent Kompany is close to returning from his latest injury lay- off. "He's close," he said. "I need him. We need him."Meanwhile, Gary Cahill has predicted that Stones will become an England centurion while admitting he will never earn 100 caps.Central defender Cahill made his 50th appearance in the goalless draw with Slovenia, but it was Stones who really impressed.The 22-year-old was England's best outfield player and demonstrated his ability to bring the ball out of defence on numerous occasions.Stones has won 13 England caps.- The Daily Telegraph