If you form the sneezy part of the population (about a third of us) you will be interested to learn that pollen is not necessarily the cause of your hayfever.Cape-based allergist Dr Mike Levin says while pollen can trigger severe allergic reactions, there are other common allergens that are not as pretty as flowers.Levin, Pharma Dynamics allergy adviser, says the most commonly inhaled allergens, apart from pollen, are: House dust mites; Cat and dog danders; Cockroach by-products; and Fungal spores."This is why pinpointing where and when an allergy occurs is vital," he says.Offices are a hazard, especially air conditioning that is too cold. Strong perfumes, cold air, red wine containing sulphites and even some vegetables can make it worse, adding a skin reaction. 6 interesting facts you may not know about allergiesLevin says the first step is to work out what the source is. "A good history and confirmatory tests, such as skin prick tests or an immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibody test, will help to diagnose an allergy."He says an allergic reaction occurs when the immune system overreacts to something, which is often in the environment of the affected person."To protect the body from the allergen, the immune system of an allergic person produces antibodies called immunoglobulin E. IgE antibodies are found mostly in the lungs, skin and mucous membranes and cause certain cells to release chemicals, such as histamine, into the bloodstream. It's this reaction that triggers allergy symptoms," Levin says."Since IgE antibodies are unique to each allergen, tests are very good at picking up 'sensitisation' or the presence of these antibodies. Doing the test is important, because it might just uncover an allergy that you knew nothing about and by avoiding it, could significantly reduce your symptoms and improve your quality of life. Importantly, if you are not 'sensitised' to an allergen, avoiding it will make no difference whatsoever."And allergens can cause effects that go beyond sneezing. "Hayfever symptoms vary from person to person, but typically include an itchy, runny or blocked nose, watery eyes, coughing, scratchy throat, postnasal drip and fatigue," he says. Tips for treating hayfever Swap contact lenses for glasses on high-pollen days (dust and pollen can stick to contact lenses, trapping allergens against your already itchy and irritated eyes); avoid swimming; clean your humidifier. According to Levin you can treat nasal allergies with antihistamines, which prevent histamine from attaching to your cells and causing symptoms. Levin recommends that you use a prescribed steroid nasal spray, daily. It does not have side effects and must be used even when there are no symptoms. The natural alternative is nasal irrigation with salt and bicarbonate of soda. A decongestant can also be used to reduce the swelling in the nasal passages, but Levin warns that this could cause a rebound effect if used for longer than the recommended three to five days, which could end up making you even more congested. So use only as directed.Useful allergy online resources: Allergyfoundation.co.za and Allergyexpert.co.za.