1) JOBURG: THEATRESeussical The Musical jnrPeople's Theatre, Braamfontein, Nov 5-Dec 24The Broadway show based on the well-loved books of Dr Seuss is a fantastical, magical musical that is fun for all ages. It follows the adventures of Horton the Elephant and introduces all your favourite Dr Seuss characters, such as The Cat in the Hat, who spring to life on stage. After all, nobody has forgotten Green Eggs and Ham! Tickets from R125, joburgtheatre.com.2) CAPE TOWN: HALLOWEENDownward Dog for Dogs91 Loop Street, October 31A yoga lesson, followed by a charitable pizza-for-puppies Halloween party, takes place from 7pm on the All Hallow's Eve. The Lucky Lucy Foundation will bring furry friends along and benefit from ticket and pizza sales. Tickets R60 per person, or a donation of dog food, toys, blankets, collars. Visit 91loop.co.za.3) DURBAN: COMEDY49 Shades of BlackDurban Jewish Club, November 4 &amp; 5Arnotte Payne debuts his one-man show. A true child of the Rainbow Nation - a coloured man with black parents who was raised by his Indian granny in Stanger! The show explores interracial relationships, mixed families and politics in sharp one-liners. Tickets at quicket.co.za, or WhatsApp 083-291-5702 to book.4) FRANSCHHOEK: CRAFT FESTIVALCraft beer &amp; wineM reson Wine Farm, Nov 5Experience the magic first-hand of a selection of specially curated, handcrafted food and drink as well as specialised and limited edition pieces, including art, jewellery and luxury leather goods. You'll be in good hands with plenty of local wines, Cap Classique, craft brews and small-batch spirits. Something for the whole family. Tickets R180 from webtickets.co.za.5) JOBURG: THEATREDeath of a ClownPopArt, Maboneng, Nov 3-6Life is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel. Death of a Clown presents the struggles of a lone Pierrot as he attempts to make his audience, and cardboard friends, laugh. As his failures pile up, our Pierrot's desperation begins to mount and he tries more outlandish forms of entertainment. Performed and directed by Ryan Napier. Tickets R80-100. Visit popartcentre.co.za.