To put this newest offering to the test we decided to pit it against other delivery app favourites: Mr D, South Africa's beloved, long-standing family service that is notorious for being as expensive as it is convenient; and OrderIn, whose name you often forget but know as "that take-out service your friend told you was good that one time".The rules were as follows. All food to be ordered from the same restaurant so as to allow fair comparison in price, distance travelled and time taken. Each dish should pose a challenge in terms of time and each app was to deliver a different course, making up a single meal - there's only so much takeout a girl can eat. Dining for those with enough on their platesArmed with these rules and apps, lunch was ordered; due to UberEATS' lack of selection in the Killarney region (just nine choices on offer) the restaurant of choice is Primi Piatti, Rosebank.Starter: Pan-seared calamari.Ordered with Mr D.Reason for app choice: They didn't have the full range of mains on their menu and, due to their R65 minimum order rule, ordering R39 brownies wasn't going to cut it.Time issue: Seafood can be rubbery when cold, and limp rocket leaves are frown-inducing.Main: Chicken campagnola.Ordered with OrderIn.Reason for app choice: Charging the same price as the restaurant menu and with the cheapest delivery charge, ordering the main proved to be cheapest.Time issue: Creamy pasta is never a good thing when it stands for too long.Dessert: Chocolate brownie.Ordered by UberEATS.Reason for app choice: Due to no minimum order limit, the low brownie price was no concern, plus giving the ice cream to the app with the perceived (possible) fastest delivery method seemed a good idea.Time issue: The brownie promised to be hot and no one likes melted ice cream.The order went smoothly, each little app buzzed and let me follow the food's journey as it was prepped, made and collected. But of course, regardless of the five-minute breaks between orders and different promised delivery times, all drivers arrived at once. Nothing makes you feel like the fat girl at the party than having three different delivery guys hand you take-out. "Why yes, this is all for me, thank you."What the top 10 most tweeted foods say about our healthIn the end the calamari was fine but the rocket was sad, the brownie cold but the ice cream held its shape, and the pasta was delicious. It is hard to judge whether these factors are due to Primi or the apps but, to be fair, all three experiences were good. But there can only be one winner, so let's look at the facts:Best Design: UberEATS. You are greeted by bright blocks of styled food photos from each restaurant, inducing cravings only a click away. However, OrderIn receives special mention for having the best menu navigation.Selection: With UberEATS' odd delivery distance standards, one's selection drastically changes with just a few metres. For example: Times Media's Johannesburg offices have a selection of 26 restaurants, including Croft &amp; Co, which is 3.3km from Times Media and 3.8km from Killarney, but it doesn't deliver there. Croft say they don't determine delivery ratios. In comparison, OrderIn clocks in at 19 restaurants and Mr D has 51 to choose from.Food price: Mr D is the definite loser in this department as the other apps stick to restaurant menu prices and Mr D notoriously does not. What's more, the Mr D price jumps are arbitrary, landing anywhere between R2 to R29 more. The calamari was R17 more than everyone else and due to that and the high delivery price, the starter ended up costing R22 more than the main.Delivery price: OrderIn wins at R10 with UberEATS trailing by R20 and Mr D unsurprisingly at R35.Fastest delivery: Mr D clocking in at 36min with UberEATS at 38min and OrderIn at 41min.Payment method: All easy and straightforward. The easiest is UberEATS as it simply links up with its sister app's payment method. But max bonus points are given to Mr D for requiring a Verified by Visa one-time pin.On delivery: It's a draw. Everyone was very friendly, although my Uber driver - who had the best smile of the bunch - didn't get out of his car. The other two were ready to physically bring it to me wherever I was, with Mr D going so far as to have me sign for my salad as though it were an important parcel. Although with the UberEATS paper bag, my dessert looked like an important parcel.Verdict:OrderIn wins!Proving that Goldilocks' dining habits still ring true; not too much on the delivery fee and price, not too little on the selection, make this app experience "just right".