It begins like that quintessential nativity story: no room at the inn. The year is 2007 in that promised land of peace, love and floral hair accessories, San Francisco, California.Unto a pair of design students - short on rent money and aware that a conference in the city is straining hotel capacity - an idea strikes, bright like a star.They create a website, airbedandbreakast.com, and by the sixth day, they have a 30-year-old Indian man and two middle-aged Americans sleeping on air mattresses on their floor, each paying $80 a night. Think of them as the three wise folks who first spotted the star.Europe's 25 cheapest destinations according to AirbnbToday, of course, the company's abbreviated name is a household word - Airbnb - and the empire built on linking up adventurous travellers with locals looking to let their homes has expanded to 2,5-million properties in 191 countries.On any given night, there are roughly a million people sleeping in an Airbnb bed. Though they won't confirm numbers, there were reports this year that the company was seeking investor funding based on a valuation of $3-billion.Their triumph is the stuff of outrageous fantasies. The three founders, Joe, Brian and Nathan (Airbnb likes to operate on a first-name basis), initially approached 20 potential investors. Not one bit.It took more creative fund-raising and tenacity to win the day, making the firm today a poster child for thinking laterally, taking risks and chasing dreams.It's entirely fitting, then, that the mothership should be here, in California's famously steep-streeted and foggy City by the Bay.San Francisco drew dreamers from its very start, rising up as a gold-rush town in 1848-50. But it was from the 1950s, with the beatniks and their beef with conservative, middle-class values; then the anti-war, pro-liberal hippie movement of the 1960s and '70s, that its enduring identity stuck.Back then, it was about personal freedoms, drugs, sexual experimentation, artistic expression and political resistance.Today, that creative mojo has a monetary sheen. The city is a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. Lex Bayer, a Joburg-born King David head boy, now head of business development at Airbnb, says the draw is partly to do with a long-abiding culture where risks are commonplace and there is no stigma attached to failure - for inventors or investors.Some of the tech world's best successes incubated here, including Twitter, Dropbox, BitTorrent and Pinterest. Thousands more have moved in to seek their fortunes.</img>Be sure to Uber over the Golden Gate Bridge in the city now a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. Image: iSTOCK Be sure to Uber over the Golden Gate Bridge in the city now a magnet for tech entrepreneurs. Image: iSTOCK All this innovation and optimism imbue a certain hue on life here. Everywhere we go, for instance, we Uber. That's another little-engine-that-could that calls the city home.And so it's out of a private car that our group tumbles one afternoon onto the intersection at Haight and Ashbury, the heartland of the hippie action during the 1967 Summer of Love, when upwards of 70,000 youths - drawn by the media hype - descended here.The neighbourhood still wears something of that bohemian bandana today, albeit spruced up for all those bright-minded, local tech workers and the tourists, who seem to flock here in equal numbers.Cool restaurants and hipster coffee shops squeeze in among dive bars, bong stores and purveyors of vintage clothes, where some racks dangle dresses so delicate there are signs requesting no touching, lest they disintegrate. They are, though, still for sale.Out on the pavement, fine-boned, filthy teenagers I imagine must be runaways smoke in doorways or sit on the pavement with cardboard signs. "F*** Trump," says one. "Gimme a dollar."The sickly sweet smell of cannabis still wafts on the air, there's still tie-dye in the stores and beautiful murals on the walls whisper a history of revolution.Back at Airbnb HQ, they're also talking revolution but in the landscape of travel itself. Their concept, they say, appeals to a sense of exploration that has ultimately been lost in the predictable, cookie-cutter nature of hotel stays.It answers the call of a new kind of traveller who wants experiences, not sights; not to dip a toe in, but immersion.As Nathan the founder puts it, Airbnb is for "experiencing a place as if you lived there"."Don't go to Paris," goes one of their campaigns, "live in Paris."</img>San Francisco as seen on an urban hike to Twin Peaks. Image: JUSTIN KANEPS San Francisco as seen on an urban hike to Twin Peaks. Image: JUSTIN KANEPS And that's how I get to live in San Francisco, in a beautiful two-storey Victorian, taller than it is wide, in a multicoloured row of houses, halfway up a steep hill. It has staircases both inside and from the street that will remind you of muscles you forgot you had.Our host - that's Airbnb shorthand for the homeowner - is Brian, who has an Italian boyfriend called Marco and a chihuahua called Carly. My housemate and I see neither nide nor hair of any of them.We do, however, enjoy Brian's glorious sunlit kitchen with a glass front like a greenhouse and the jacuzzi in the little flower-filled back yard.As is customary with Airbnb listings, our "house manual" on the table fills us in on the necessary local details from how to operate the TV to where to get milk, plus Brian's insider tips on cool things to do in the 'hood.Our address is in the 700s on Castro Street, whose eponymous neighbourhood has flown the rainbow flag, symbol of LGBT rights, higher than anywhere since the '70s. Today, even The Castro's pedestrian crossings are rainbows.Alongside the more prosaic Walgreens and Starbucks on the main drag are shops with cheeky names like Moby Dick and Rock Hard, displaying all manner of oddities in their windows, from sex toys and bondage gear to jerseys for dogs.The eclectic cast of characters on the street, from cross-dressers to the almost-unlawfully underdressed, are similarly colourful.How to turn your home into a HomeTel (& other secrets of Airbnb success)It's outside one of the area's landmarks, the 1922-built Castro Theatre, that we set out one day for a hike. Our guide is a local woman, Alex, who is taking that "live like a local" concept a step further by letting us hang with her.Though the trip is not part of the official Airbnb offering, individual hosts vary widely in how much they interact with their guests - some escort outings; most at least provide insider tips.Alex has lived here for 10 years and is an enthusiastic "urban hiker", apparently a thing real San Franciscans love to do. As she explains, because of the 40 mighty hills that scroll up and down the peninsula, the civil engineer who laid out the streets wanted curves that obeyed the terrain.Real-estate developers, however, wanted straight streets, which would make the lots easier to subdivide and sell. You can tell from the maddeningly steep streets who won. The consolation for pedestrians was steep staircases built into the hills for shortcuts (and shapely bums).Our 8km power walk leads us past all sorts of interesting "insider" sights: the 1891 Alfred E Clarke Mansion, better known as Nobby's Folly; a fun local park with concrete slides; and a eucalyptus forest. Our end point, up, up and away, is Twin Peaks, a pair of hills that sit 280m over the city, with grand views of all its charms.On another day, we Uber over the Golden Gate Bridge to a quirky community of floating homes, the Sausalito houseboats.In the '60s, these abandoned WW2-era shipyards sprouted a community of squatters, lured by the promise of free housing on the water. Slowly, and with some intervention from the city, they morphed into a kind of artists' commune.Today, given the idyllic location and charm, houseboat prices have soared. On the jetty, the brightly painted postboxes of old, oddball die-hards sit beside those of newer, monied inhabitants.For all of them, the sun is less shy here than on the other side of the bridge and a popular pastime is going out on the water. </img>A quirky collection of post boxes for the Sausalito houseboats, San Francisco's quirky community of floating homes. Image: JUSTIN KANEPS A quirky collection of post boxes for the Sausalito houseboats, San Francisco's quirky community of floating homes. Image: JUSTIN KANEPS We do this on paddleboards with local Pamela, who helps us novices wobble up to a standing position before we glide off for some utterly rare views of these private homes - from the water.Afterwards, we sit on Pamela's deck, watching the tide-line lap and the seals doze. Someone is humming Dock of the Bay (Otis Redding wrote it on a Sausalito houseboat). The sun is warm and the beer is cold. Man, it's good to be home.