Why is the government doing this in such a cloak-and-dagger way?It's all about politics at various levels - domestic, regional and, less so, international. I believe the Zuma government is driving this for three reasons: to deflect attention from his domestic challenges; to try to shield himself and his government from the consequences of the upcoming Constitutional Court hearing in relation to the 2015 visit to South Africa of Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir; and to try to win himself friends in the broader African context.Is this likely to relieve pressure on President Jacob Zuma or the reverse, given the adverse public opinion and yet another court case?I don't think the government expected such a backlash.Justice interrupted: The true cost of SA rejecting the ICCIf it expected popular support why didn't it want parliament to debate it?I don't think they expected public support. I think the Zuma government thought it would be a political move that would be supported by certain constituencies within the ANC given past criticisms of the International Criminal Court.The DA is taking the government to court. Does it have a strong case?I think the government clearly acted unlawfully. The constitution makes it clear. [The Rome Statute] is not a self-executing treaty and South Africa has a legal system where, just as you need parliamentary approval to be bound by the provisions of a treaty, you need parliamentary approval to not be bound by them. I'm sure the Constitutional Court will find that.Doesn't this again pose questions about the quality of legal advice the government is getting?Indeed. And not only in relation to withdrawing from the International Criminal Court. The statement by the minister of justice said South Africa was also withdrawing its application to the Constitutional Court in the Bashir matter.Even that statement was legally unsound because it is very clear under Rule 27 of the Constitutional Court rules that an applicant can't just simply withdraw without at least the approval of the other parties, which have made it clear that they never gave such approval. That will also now be heard by the Constitutional Court.Apart from legal technicalities, why is such a fuss being made?Because the International Criminal Court really does matter to thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of victims of atrocities in Africa who might have hoped South Africa wouldn't be one of the countries trying to destroy it.Second, it matters because the rule of law is under attack at every level in the country. It's happened domestically and now we see it happening on the international plane. It further demonstrates that the rule of law is in serious trouble in this country and that politics is winning out more often than not.Withdrawal from the ICC: A sad day for South Africa and AfricaWhere do you see this going?I'm more optimistic than I have been for a long time. The rule of law is under attack from a very particular part of government. There are other institutions of the rule of law that have demonstrated that they are rigorous and robust.The public protector, the Constitutional Court and other courts have demonstrated a commitment to the separation of powers and the rule of law. And we've seen strong support from all sectors of society.This might be a tipping point. It could result in a constitutional crisis if the government ignores the Constitutional Court decision on this, but I believe it's going to be another demonstration of the strength of our constitutional democracy.Do you think the government will be forced to back down?Indeed. And I think they'll back down before it gets to court. I think, as they've done with the Pravin Gordhan matter, that the government has underestimated the push-back, and overestimated their competence in managing these situations.How does withdrawing from the ICC harm us internationally?We partly got to where we are today as a constitutional democracy where we've been able to punch above our weight at various international forums because of the Mandela legacy.Human rights commission concerned with SA s withdrawal from ICCSo damaging that legacy is a dangerous thing to do?Not only because it allows us to be at discussions around key issues like human rights, but across the board, whether it's financial and economic investment, South Africa's position at the table at the G20 - at all sorts of different forums.We mustn't underestimate the impact of this. This is one further nail in South Africa's coffin in terms of having the position it's had at the tables it needed to be at, and needs to be at in the future. And we need to reverse it because our credibility is running thin. The rest of the world is looking at South Africa with real concern at the moment.Might this further influence ratings agencies to downgrade us?I don't think so in the short term. But South Africa needs to ride on its reputation for being the poster child for constitutional democracy, particularly because of our history.The reason the International Criminal Court matters is because it speaks so clearly to that history. It's about human rights, it's about atrocity crimes - it's about the crimes our country went through.Apartheid is an international crime under the court's statutes. So to see South Africa at the forefront of the attack to destroy it is more shocking than any other country.