The book she called her "last roll of the dice" was a runaway bestseller that has now been made into a blockbuster film starring Emily Blunt as Rachel Watson.Rachel is an alcoholic who every day rides the train along the Hudson River between Manhattan and the outlying suburbs of New York. The book was set in the UK but this transatlantic relocation does no discernible harm to the story despite alarmed protests from Hawkins's fans.4DX is the reason to get off your couch & go to the cinemaFrom her seat on the train, Rachel (who is still English, though the supporting characters are now American) passes the same houses that back onto the railway tracks.She and her former husband used to live in one of these houses, but she doesn't want to think about that. Instead she focuses on a house occupied by an attractive couple about whom she creates elaborate fantasies.When Rachel sees something she interprets as a betrayal of the perfect marriage she has imagined, it cuts into the raw wound of her own abandonment and makes her behave even more irrationally than usual.The suspense of the novel relied on a constant overturning of what the reader thought was true. If you have read the book, each shattering new facet revealed by the film is obviously not going to have the same impact, but Blunt gives a devastating performance as bleary, slack-jawed Rachel, and director Tate Taylor satisfyingly captures the dark claustrophobia of suburbia.Rating: 4/5WATCH the trailer for 'The Girl on the Train': Paula Hawkins on turning her book into a movie The Girl on the Train is a dark story and it deals with troubling subjects. I am interested in the way people behave under extreme pressures, in extreme circumstances. I really can't say why I'm like this - I've had a happy life, a great family, etcetera. I've obviously just got a dark side and I enjoy indulging it.</img>Author Paula Hawkins. Image: SuppliedAuthor Paula Hawkins. Image: SuppliedIf anything, I think Rachel seems more unreliable - and more of a potential threat - in the film. But the move to the US did mean she couldn't drink gin and tonics in cans - they don't exist in America.I think that culturally there is a strong train/thriller connection (4.50 to Paddington, Strangers on a Train, Murder on the Orient Express). There's something about the proximity to strangers with whom you are taking a journey that lends itself to a good mystery.This journey has been marked by excitement, fear, nervous anticipation, more excitement and finally relief! It's been a wild ride, but ultimately my Hollywood experience has been a very happy one.I'm not sure the red carpet experience is comfortable for anyone, but particularly not if you're a little bit introverted and not skinny and glamorous. However, I should not complain - most writers can only dream of getting the sort of attention my book has got.