With a high-speed rail link due mid-2017 and the Cit du Vin wine museum attracting fans of the tipple from all over the world, it's no surprise to see the famous travel guide pick the French city of Bordeaux as its hottest urban destination for 2017. The urban landscape has also been transformed, with the freshly-renovated banks of the river Garonne and the regeneration of the right bank. "A sleeping beauty has awoken," says Lonely Planet.In the cities category, Bordeaux is followed by Cape Town, South Africa, in second place, and Los Angeles, USA, in third. The 10-strong list also features two relatively little-known destinations on the global travel scene: Ohrid in Macedonia (fifth) and Pistoia in Italy (sixth). A Michelin-starred chef's guide to eating out in BordeauxPACIFIC DESTINATIONS ON TREND FOR 2017Who hasn't dreamed of dipping a toe into the turquoise waters of the world's biggest ocean? Pacific destinations are by no means pass , still riding high in Lonely Planet's rankings, particularly those in Oceania. Taranaki, New Zealand, comes second in the list of best regions to visit in 2017, and South Australia comes fifth. This Australian state, with its rocky coastlines, breathtaking shores, vineyards and natural parks, and its coastal capital Adelaide, could be set to rival the Red Center and its desert landscapes, the bright lights of Sydney and the cultural haunts of Melbourne as an Ozzie destination. The list of top regions also features the Tuamotu Archipelago in French Polynesia in seventh place.As for countries, Lonely Planet puts Canada in the top spot for 2017, followed by Colombia (second) and Finland (third).A roundup of all Lonely Planet's hottest destinations for the coming year will be compiled in its Best Of 2017 guidebook, due out October 27.</img>Ohrid, Macedonia, came in at number three on the Lonely Planet's list of 10 best cities to visit in 2017. Image: Ohrid, Macedonia, came in at number three on the Lonely Planet's list of 10 best cities to visit in 2017. Image: LONELY PLANET'S FULL LIST OF THE BEST DESTINATIONS TO VISIT IN 2017By country1) Canada 2) Colombia 3) Finland 4) Dominica 5) Nepal 6) Bermuda 7) Mongolia 8) Oman 9) Myanmar (Burma) 10) EthiopiaSA makes list of top luxury travel destinations for 2016/17: surveyBy region1) Choquequirao, Peru 2) Taranaki, New Zealand 3) A ores, Portugal 4) North Wales, UK 5) South Australia 6) Ays n, Chile 7) Tuamotu Islands, French Polynesia 8) The Georgia coast, USA 9) Perak, Malaysia 10) Skellig Ring, IcelandBy city1) Bordeaux, France 2) Cape Town, South Africa 3) Los Angeles, USA 4) M rida, Mexico 5) Ohrid, Macedonia 6) Pistoia, Italy 7) Seoul, South Korea 8) Lisbon, Portugal 9) Moscow, Russia 10) Portland, USA