African countries are now often requiring not only a letter of invitation and an itinerary but also proof of company registration bank-account statements tax-clearance certificates and a minimum bank balance. Contrary to popular belief countries are getting stricter in terms of their requirements. Two three years ago you could get away with the minimum. Now they are really strict says Raylene Pienaar general manager of Corporate Traveller one of South Africa s top travel management companies. Ask Andrew: All visa dilemmasPienaar says while South Africans do not require business visas for many countries and especially those within the South African Development Community those requiring permits are becoming more demanding.Apart from a written invitation from a local company South African passport holders also need to provide a letter from their company in South Africa a certificate of incorporation and three months bank statements reflecting a balance of at least R18 000. They re also very particular about the documentation. So for example to visit Nigeria Angola and Ghana you cannot just have any letter of invitation. It needs to be very specific. The addressee is specific and the name on the invitation has to be exactly the same as what s in the traveller s passport. For example if your name is William but everybody calls you Bill the invitation has to be addressed to William says Pienaar.Some countries also require all documents to be translated into the local language while still others require a tax-clearance certificate in addition to the other paperwork. Foreigners working for South African companies need to produce a residence or work permit valid for at least six months she adds. If there's not a six-month validity period they will not consider the application Pienaar says noting that South African passport holders also have to ensure their passports are valid for at least six months.She urges business travellers to make sure they are acquainted with whether they require visas as well as with the documents needed as it be can be arduous and expensive to get an emergency visa (if the option exists). Business travellers need to start thinking about getting their visas as soon as they start planning their trip says Pienaar. They can no longer afford to wait until the last minute. Forewarned is forearmed when it comes to securing a business visa. Factbox Everything South African business travellers need to know about securing a business visa:Q: Which countries require business visas? South African passport holders don t need business visas for Botswana Kenya Mozambique Namibia Zambia and Zimbabwe.They do however require visas for Angola the Democratic Republic of the Congo Ghana Nigeria Rwanda and Tanzania.Q: There seems to be confusion about whether I require a business visa for Namibia and Kenya? What is the true situation? Up until three to four months ago there was confusion over whether South Africans required business visas for Namibia and Kenya. That has changed and South Africans do not require visas for either business or tourism to those countries.You do however require a visa if you are going to work in Namibia but you can only apply once you are there because the embassy in South Africa doesn t process work visas.What's the world's friendliest city? Q: Do I have to apply from South Africa? Several countries such as Tanzania and Rwanda allow you to procure your visa on arrival.For others such as Angola Nigeria Ghana and the Democratic Republic of the Congo you need to apply before you fly.Q: What if I have a foreign passport? Then you generally need a visa. But you can get it on arrival in many countries including Zambia and Zimbabwe.Consult a visa expert for the requirements for your destination country.Q: Is a business visa more expensive than a tourist visa? There is generally little difference between the cost of business and tourist visas. However for Tanzania a business visa is 30% more expensive than a tourist visa.Q: How long does it take to process a business visa? Business visas typically take longer to process than tourism visas because you are required to produce more documentation.Q: How do I pay? It differs from country to country but the most common is a bank transfer / deposit. Nigeria allows you to pay online but you have to use your personal credit card. Ghana however deems that the only acceptable proof of payment is a bank deposit slip and does not allow electronic fund transfers (EFT).You should contact the relevant consulate to find out which form of payment is deemed acceptable.Q: What happens if I don t have much time to get a visa? Some countries will allow you apply for an emergency visa which is typically more expensive. Ghana and Angola for example both offer emergency visas. For Angola it takes three days to process and once the visa is issued the traveller has 72 hours to arrive in Angola. Travellers on emergency visas to Angola may only stay for seven days.Nigeria has two options: express and regular. The express option takes anything from 48 hours to four days while the regular option takes between seven and 10 days. The difference in cost between the two visas is about R500.