Garden Day was originally thought up by the gardeners at Babylonstoren, a historic Cape Dutch farm that boasts one of the best preserved farmyards in the Cape. They wanted to dedicate a day to people enjoying their own gardens with friends and family.So this Sunday you have the ultimate excuse to find a green spot, be it your own garden, a corner of your home that you spruce up with flowers and foliage, or any outdoor space, and relax, surrounded by nature.Try these ideas to bring the outdoors in this weekend:1) Create a flower arrangement"Don t be intimidated by the art of flower arranging," says floral stylist Alwijn Burger from Blomboy. "Start small your favourite, single stem in a beautiful, simple vase. Appreciate it, and discover the beauty of each stage of the bloom s existence.""Experiment with greenery," he adds. "The foliage of trees, shrubs and grasses provide a wonderful richness of textures, interesting shapes and delicate colour differences. Furthermore, leaves, branches and grasses are available in your garden, field or in a friend's garden all year round (ask permission before you pick!)."Here are some of his other top tips for fabulous flower arrangements: Keep it simple: A mass of one type of flower/leaf easily creates a big impression. Keep the stems of your flowers neat and tidy trim the stems and refresh the water for longer-lasting flowers. Choose a classic container or pot flowers do not like to fight for attention. 2) Think beyond flowers for arrangements"Instead of, or along with flowers and foliage, fill vases and bowls with fruits and vegetables. Don't use the usual lemons and limes, experiment with vegetables like turnips and eggplants set against interesting textures such as wood or glass," suggests Constance Stuurman, head gardener at Babylonstoren."Cut and clean a few shorter branches with leaves on and add them to a glass vase for table decoration." 3) Create an indoor garden with pot plantsNext to flower arrangements, houseplants are possibly the first thing you think of when you want to bring the outdoors in. Visit your nearest nursery for quick and easy finds to add to your living space. (Read more on how to create an instant indoor garden trendy pot plants.)"Opt for planters that hang from the ceiling, especially if you're short on floor space," suggests Stuurman. And for a unique touch, opt for a planter that's designed to be hung upside down, or make your own hanging plant.4) Wreaths aren't just for the festive seasonNeither do wreaths need to be relegated to the outdoors, maintains Stuurman. In fact, their versatility in both style and form make them great additions to interior spaces, including bedrooms, living rooms, dining rooms, or as part of a gallery wall display.5) Make a terrarium"Terrariums are super easy to make and incredibly low-maintenance," says Stuurman. They work well in any indoor space from bathrooms to entrance halls and even the bedroom.In this video, Suzelle DIY, shows you how simple it is to make one in a matter of minutes using a glass vase:Suzelle For more ideas on what to do this Garden Day, visit gardenday.co.za