Ask Jessica Byrne, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Association for Dietetics in South Africa, and she will say canola oil is great for heart health."It is a good plant source of omega 3 unsaturated fats, which support heart health. You would otherwise get omega 3 fats in fatty fish, like salmon, sardines and pilchards." It's official: These are SA's 5 top olive oilsCanola is a Canadian hybrid of rapeseed oil. But its health benefits became a controversial topic following claims that the oil's nutritional value and food safety had been compromised by a US genetic modification of the plant to make it resistant to the pesticide Roundup.Byrne says the claims about canola oil being toxic are not substantiated. "This year, there was a good, independent local study published by the SA Journal of Clinical Nutrition which tested South African sunflower, olive and canola oil for toxicity."It found that canola contains negligible amounts of trans fats and the levels of potentially unhealthy compounds are low, well within acceptable international standards."Byrne said, however, that the quality of all oils and fat can be affected if they are not handled correctly."The smoke point is the point at which oil degrades or begins to lose nutritional benefit. Extra virgin olive oil has a lower smoking point than most oils, and sunflower oil has a higher smoking point, which means you can use it at a higher temperature."If oil is black and smokey, it has reached its smoke point. "When you overheat oil, certain potentially unhealthy compounds form. When an oil is reused for frying, food particles that remain in the oil will also lower the smoke point quickly."6 summer health food trendsByrne says: "The message around low fat has also changed quite significantly over the years. We know fats are essential for health. The quality or type of fat is what is more important than the quantity."The collection of evidence shows that it is important to include more unsaturated fats, found in plant oils like olive, canola and sunflower oil as well as nuts, seeds, avocado and fatty fish, in your diet, and to reduce saturated fats found in animal products."But chef and clean-eating advocate Andrea Burgener disagrees on the use of heat-extracted oils."The industrialised vegetable oils we find on supermarket shelves are extracted through high heat and using chemicals like hexane."Many are also deodorised because omega 3 oils left in their natural state go rancid and smell bad. There may not be enough research to pinpoint at what quantities these oils have negative effects, but I am sceptical about actual health benefits," says Burgener.She is a fan of least-processed fats and oils. "Butter and cold-pressed olive oil for low-heat cooking, and ghee for frying. Anything overly refined is worrying."After years of debate, a Harvard study has found that there is "no significant association between high intake of saturated fatty acids and an increased risk of coronary heart disease, stroke or cardiovascular disease." Therefore, reducing the intake of saturated fatty acids is not the answer to reducing risk.Instead, replace dietary saturated fatty acids (found in red meat and butter) with polyunsaturated fatty acids (such as plant oils) to make a positive difference to heart health.The great butter debate continuesThe study also said that it is better to replace the saturated fatty acids with healthy oils, rather than carbohydrates (vegetables, bread and other starches) or sugar. This is in agreement with World Health Organisation guidelines.Final answer: A diet with around 30% of daily energy coming from fat (a maximum of 10% from saturated fatty acids), is consistent with good health.Dietician Irene Labuschagne from the Nutrition Information Centre at Stellenbosch University says butter has not been researched sufficiently to prove its benefits - or identify possible hazards."These conclusions could be proven in the future, but there are no long-term studies. For now, the relevant and internationally supported health recommendations we go by are that vegetable oils are affordable, good fats which add to the different varieties of fat we need in our bodies."We definitely need butter, or saturated fats in the diet. But as most South Africans are meat eaters who consume dairy, there is a high saturated fat intake. In this diet, we need to balance the fat intake, not add more saturated fat to it in the form of butter."Human beings need a variety of fats from various sources. Balance it with vegetable protein in the form of beans and pulses, and eat more fish. Then, you can include more butter to the diet." Eat as close to nature as you can. The healthiest fat is extra virgin olive oil, which is most beneficial when used unheated. Don't overheat oil or reuse too often - especially oil with food particles in it, as these compromise nutritional value. Try not to deep fry, but if you do, use oils that can withstand heat like ghee or sunflower oil. Butter is high in good cholesterol, which the brain and nervous system need to develop properly. Too much of anything is too much - even olive oil.