"I'd never withdraw. I've never withdrawn in my life," Trump told the Washington Post in a phone interview. There's "zero chance I'll quit" and the "support I'm getting is unbelievable", he told the Wall Street Journal.Trump released a video statement earlier yesterday apologising for the second time in 24 hours for the comments, made in 2005. He sought to demonise his opponent, Democrat Hillary Clinton, at the same time."Bill Clinton has actually abused women, and Hillary has bullied, attacked, shamed and intimidated his victims."Trump also said he planned to appear at the second presidential debate, today, in St Louis, Missouri.Attacks on Trump, Clinton dominate VP debateIn the recording of a conversation Trump had with Billy Bush, a TV host, before they taped a segment for Access Hollywood, Trump brags about failing to seduce a married woman. The tape was published by the Washington Post."I did try and f**k her. She was married," Trump, whose third marriage began earlier that year, said in the video. He also said he would "grab them by the p***y", referring to women he was attracted to. "And when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything."Trump's campaign has weathered other controversies, but the latest flare-up is being treated more severely. Republican leadership rushed to condemn his statements, some Republican legislators withdrew their endorsements, and donors are looking to fund an effort to back someone else as the nominee, although it would be nearly impossible to make a switch with the election just a month away.Spencer Zwick, a top Republican fundraiser, said donors were backing away from Trump. "Major GOP donors are pulling support from Donald Trump and are now looking to fund an effort to back someone else as the Republican nominee," Zwick said.Republican congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah said he could no longer endorse Trump, and wished Trump's running mate, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, was on the top of the ticket. "I think we should all stand up and say we're not going to tolerate this," Chaffetz, who heads the House Oversight Committee, said on CNN.Trump abruptly cancelled an appearance at a Wisconsin event with House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan yesterday. Ryan said he was "sickened" by the tape."I hope Mr Trump treats this situation with the seriousness it deserves and works to demonstrate that he has greater respect for women than this clip suggests, " he said.