I reckon John Masefield would have liked Cape Columbine Nature Reserve.He was the English poet laureate who wrote, "I must go down to the seas again, to the lonely sea and the sky."Whether it's my distant seafaring heritage or the simple pleasure of his poem pitching and rolling around in my head, Sea Fever seems a fitting companion to the rumble of the Atlantic Ocean against the shores of Cape Columbine.This unassuming reserve along the windswept West Coast may not draw every visitor away from the whitewashed cottages and excellent eateries of nearby Paternoster, but then they're the ones missing out. Weekend Escape: There's lots to spy in Cape Agulhas Flowers bloom along the hillsides in springtime, the famed Tietiesbaai campsite offers seclusion in spades, and the hardy can fish these waters for hottentot (aka black bream) or west coast rock lobster (in season).Then there's the lighthouse, commissioned in 1938. Tours are offered most days with superb views from the upper gantries. Every 15 seconds after sunset, its wide beam waves a hand in greeting to ships passing by this treacherous coast.Too late for the tall ships of Masefield's day though, many of which met their end on the shores here.The beam flies silently above my head as I admire the dying sunset from my Adirondack in front of the Sea Shack, whisky in hand.In the golden light, a pied kingfisher attacks the shallows for dinner, while a pair of grey mongooses scour the shoreline. It's a rare winter's day of sunshine and stillness but this is an exposed coast, prone to foul weather.In summer, Masefield would certainly get his wish for "a windy day with the white clouds flying, and the flung spray and the blown spume, and the sea-gulls crying".Summer is as wind-whipped as the winter is cantankerous, when rolling swells crash against the shore. Thankfully, the Sea Shack sits with its back to the wind.That evening I find a seat at The Noisy Oyster, the most popular restaurant in town. By the fireside, I soak up the bonhomie. Masefield would have been happy here too, enjoying "a merry yarn from a laughing fellow-rover". And then, like me, to bed on the rocky shoreline; for "quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick's over". PLAN YOUR TRIP WHERE IT IS: Cape Columbine Nature Reserve, 5km from the village of Paternoster.WHY GO THERE: If you do love to be beside the seaside, you'll be happy here. The accommodation may be simple but the location is superb, with the Atlantic all but licking your toes in the morning. The restaurants, shops and beaches of Paternoster are a short drive away.WHAT IT OFFERS: Ten small and simple wooden cabins set on the seafront, all powered by solar and gas. Each offers little more than a bed (double or twin), but there's a large communal kitchen and living area to spread out in. Linen is provided; towels are not. Clean but simple ablutions are shared, with composting toilets and gas showers.AND THE FOOD: Self-catering, with a large fire pit out front for a seaside braai. Why not stop at the excellent Charlie's Fish Shop in Saldanha Bay en route? If you can't be bothered, Paternoster brims with excellent eateries.Try Wolfgat or Oep ve Koep for unique Strandveld cuisine, or The Noisy Oyster for bistro cooking given a West Coast twist.Don't be tempted by those "special season" crayfish sold off the pavement year-round. They may land you with a hefty fine, or salmonella. Perhaps both.RATES: From R690 per shack per night.GETTING THERE: Follow the R27 north of Cape Town. After roughly 120km turn left onto the R45. Follow this through Vredenburg and on to Paternoster, 14km away. At the four-way stop, turn left and follow the signs 4km to Cape Columbine and Sea Shack.CONTACT: Visit seashack.co.za or call 079-820-6824.