Hasan's aims are truly stellar."I will lead Bangladesh from the front, it is a big dream of mine. My plan is to play for Bangladesh for 15 years."I want to be the top allrounder in the world ranking," he says to the camera while riding in the back of a car before the shot cuts to him walking out at the Mirpur Stadium in Dhaka with his bat in hand.Well, he took a step to the top of those world rankings on his very first day of test cricket.By the close Hasan had become the second youngest spinner to take six wickets [6/80] on his first day in test cricket. Nasim-ul-Ghani of Pakistan, aged 16, holds that record, taking 5/116 against the West Indies in 1958. Cricket SA wants journalists help to review Proteas' poor performanceHasan has been a star in the making ever since he captained Bangladesh at the previous Under-19s World Cup in 2014 aged just 16.He was so young when he first took the job that he was still eligible to captain his country again in the 2015 tournament, one in which Bangladesh finished third to provide further proof of their rising power as a cricket nation. Hasan was named player of the tournament.Hasan, who turns 19 the day after the first test is due to finish, had to sneak out from his parents home as a youngster to play cricket.He grew up in Khulna, Bangladesh's third- largest city, and his parents would have preferred him to concentrate on his schoolwork, but his prodigious talent was spotted early by Sheikh Salahuddin, a former Bangladesh player described as the best offspinner of his generation.Salahuddin never made the most of his own talent, playing only a handful of one-dayers in the 1990s, but taught his young prodigy how to spin the ball and the value of control. Thirty wickets in his second full season of first-class cricket at the average of only 16 backed up the schoolboy promise.Salahuddin died of a heart attack in 2013 aged only 44, and so missed out on watching Hasan develop into a promising test cricketer.What was remarkable about Hasan's performance is that he barely bowled a bad ball all day. He varied his flight, spun the ball hard and had the onfield presence of an experienced bowler playing in his 50th test. He looked settled on the big stage from his first over."I am never going to forget this day," he said. "I got a five-wicket haul on my test debut. I got massive turn off my first delivery but Mushfiq repeatedly told me that I should bowl at the stumps, so that I have a chance to get leg-before or hit the stumps. From my second or third over, I realised that I will be successful if I bowl stump to stump."So far, this test has only seen one half of Hasan's game. He averages 40 in first-class cricket with the bat, and struck three 50s in the World Cup last year.