Nomzamo was one of several celebrities who added sparkle to the proceedings by wearing a glittering gown on the red carpet. Her midnight blue dress was paired with nude high-heeled sandals and a gauzy headwrap. READ MORE: 4 fashion trends that dominated the 2016 MTV MAMAs red carpet. This figure-hugging, cappuccino-coloured dress proves you don't have to show much skin to achieve a sexy look. According to an Instagram post by the Tell Me Sweet Something star, the gown was online find. What really makes this outfit, however, is the statement neck piece by Keke Beads. A photo posted by Nomzamo Mbatha (@nomzamo_m) on Oct 23, 2016 at 6:07am PDT Never one to shy away from a bold print, Nomzamo looked strong and confident in this backless jumpsuit by Rich Factory.A photo posted by Nomzamo Mbatha (@nomzamo_m) on Oct 23, 2016 at 6:57am PDTA photo posted by Nomzamo Mbatha (@nomzamo_m) on Oct 23, 2016 at 6:48am PDTNomzamo's second headwrap of the night matched her strapless gown by Joburg-based designer Rina Chunga of Rich Factory.Apparently last-minute alterations were needed backstage to get the perfect fit. "When all of a sudden the dress has all this excess fabric on the booty and you have 1min back stage to hand tack it and make it work. ...always pretty calm though, because panicking is for suckers," the designer posted on Instagram.A photo posted by Nomzamo Mbatha (@nomzamo_m) on Oct 23, 2016 at 5:09am PDT "Tried to channel Babes Wodumo" tweeted Nomzamo about the lace-up bra top and high-waisted jeans she wore on stage. Oversized hoop earnings and an armful of rainbow beaded bracelets completed the ensemble. Zulu beads have become one of the actress's trademarks and are something she always packs when travelling abroad. "They make you stand out and are a good conversation opener because people will always stop you to ask where you're from," she explained in an interview about her summer travel essentials.Tried to channel Babes Wodumo in this costume #MTVMAMA2016 pic.twitter.com/I65aWI7LTvThe technicolour print of this strapless peplum-style top and cropped pants was a bit trippy close up. READ MORE: ALL of Bonang's outfits from the 2016 MTV MAMAsWe couldn't have asked for better hosts. #MTVMAMA2016 @bonang_m @NomzamoMbatha pic.twitter.com/rS9udUAAn3