A treadmill of dreadful news is perhaps the best descriptor of the past several months. A decade ago when I travelled abroad I revelled in the positive attention South Africa attracted. No longer. Nowadays reference to the country is swaddled in cynicism, if not downright hostility. It's of our own making.On the rest of the continent the revulsion stems in large part from xenophobic violence triggered first in 2008 and now a constant threat. Noble efforts by social movements and even the provincial government in KwaZulu-Natal succeeded in calming the climate, but only just. It's a fragile holding pattern.Scratch a little and you will hear of a Somali shopkeeper being threatened with eviction or worse in a local township. Keep an ear pricked and you will notice the torrent of abuse a Congolese car guard receives in response to a cheery greeting. It is a painful state of affairs.ANC leadership needs to be purged to rediscover its soulWhen one thinks back to the newly liberated Africa of the 1950s and '60s, one can picture the open arms of Julius Nyerere, Kwame Nkrumah and Kenneth Kaunda. They welcomed all and sundry to their uhuru.Tanzania's hospitality to our liberation movements knew no boundaries. Dar es Salaam was a hub where the Robert Mugabes, Oliver Tambos, Laurent Kabilas and Che Guevaras could commune and plot the freedom of their countries.It was not that Tanzanians were necessarily predisposed to having guests. Rather, they had in Nyerere a father who was decisive, upstanding and generous to a fault.South Africa had flashes of that potential. Nelson Mandela was the great unifier, adept at papering over the cracks of a fractured nationhood.But he did not have time on his side. Thabo Mbeki entered as the philosopher king with a gleaming vision of a united continent. His time in office was cut short by the ANC's internal political intrigues. The statesmanly Kgalema Motlanthe was called up from the bench but could only play a few minutes of regulation time.Enter the nimble-footed Jacob Zuma, and the country goes into free fall. Zuma could have been a pinch of Nkrumah, a dash of Nyerere, a slice of Kaunda, a dollop of Mandela, a sliver of Mbeki and a sip of Motlanthe - such was the heritage of leadership. Instead he plunged headlong into a private life that became a public spectacle. He became cavalier with the public purse and kept close company with a bevy of unsavoury characters.Zuma is an astute, calculating man with a noble record in the freedom struggle. All that comes to naught when measured against the damage he has done to the country that he spent his youth and a good deal of his adult life fighting for.Without challenging his right to polygamy, was it really necessary to burden the taxpayer with the upkeep of his spouses? Similarly, we could have been spared having the Constitutional Court compel him to pay his bills. His shady friends Schabir Shaik and the Guptas are a byword for shameless larceny.State assets are not guarded like the crown jewels. Instead, their keepers are drawn from the president's less-than-able companions, SAA and the SABC being cases in point. I warned SA about leadership crisis: Reuel KhozaThe Zuma presidency has also been marred by rampant anti-intellectualism. Ideas have been replaced by divisive sloganeering.In the latest debacle, the hounding of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan by the National Prosecuting Authority is couched by the praise singers as a counterforce to "white monopoly capital". Capital has a lot to answer for, but it can't be the ruse to deflect attention from the disasters of the Zuma presidency.The noble mission of transformation of the economy is trotted out with scant regard for the fact that the feeding frenzy is being driven by a narrow black elite at the expense of an increasingly impatient populace.Even South Africa's participation in Brics is touted as a Zuma intervention to break the stranglehold of Western capital. Far from it: South Africa was invited to join the Bric formation in 2010 as an add-on and has yet to see the benefits, while the resource-hungry Russians, Indians and Chinese have won for themselves a foothold in the new scramble for Africa.The country is at a hugely worrying crossroads. Driven by political expediency there are those willing to let the economy crash and the country burn. They must be stopped. No country ever recovers from economic and financial catastrophe. If in any doubt, cast your eye across the Limpopo.Buccus is senior research associate at the Auwal Socio-Economic Research Institute, a research fellow in the School of Social Sciences at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and an academic director of a university study-abroad programme on political transformation