Your earliest memory of travelling abroad?Sitting in the boot of our family station wagon, on the road to Beira in Mozambique - stinking up the car after my digestive system reacted to dried fruit!What do you need for a perfect holiday?My wife and somewhere quiet - preferably somewhere around the Med; with no wifi; and being the only English speakers in hearing distance.Favourite holiday destination?Greece and Italy. Simple, sumptuous food, wine, olives and layers of history and countryside that encourages connubial connection. My travelling life: Jesse CleggMost relaxing destination?We just returned from sailing on a gulet around the Turkish coast - swimming in crystal waters for three hours a day, then sailing, snacking, walking, drinking!Favourite restaurant?The Chapmans Peak Hotel. Their pan combo of fish and calamari is the best in the world.Best holiday ever?Travelling with the family through Europe. We did shows for three years to save up for it and then we went London, Paris, Provence, Tuscany, Rome and Paxos. Work was a really horrible shock after that.Favourite city?Rome. It's the perfect balance of layers of history, gelato and sweating, cursing, cuddling Italians.Most adventurous travel experience?Canoeing down the Zambezi with my two brothers. My wife christened us the three idiot buccaneers - between the crocs, the hippos and the tides, it was bloody hard work and not that safe.Favourite hotel?This year? The Last Word, a boutique hotel in Constantia. I was doing a charity performance and won a lucky draw - and they gave us the most fantastic suite (and I have seen some fantastic suites!) My Travelling Life: Expresso s Zola NeneBest piece of travel advice?Travel with the right people and avoid the crowds.What's your one travel essential?My Kindle. I ingest books like an overactive vacuum cleaner. I used to have to budget enough luggage space for my holiday reading.Where next?We are lucky - every year the family gets to do a show or two on The Sinfonia for MSC over New Year and so it's Mauritius (again). We know the perfect quiet beach, close to the best vegetarian rotis in the world. They cost R8 each and they are indecently good. - Interview by Elizabeth Sleith Von Memerty is starring in Keyboard Killers , on now at the Pieter Toerien Theatre, Montecasino, until October 30, 2016.