Nil, as onse Charlize would be the first to inform her.It's unfortunate that two of our biggest overseas exports both have silent aitches in their surnames, even though the names are drawn from totally different South African languages: Theron and Thusi. Thank heavens for Trevor Noah and his phonologically transparent biblical surname.Thusi is riding triumphantly into American public consciousness via the second season of drama series Quantico. That's the show which deals with a bunch of recruits for the FBI and CIA: a bit like Homeland, but everyone's younger and better looking.The secret s out: how Pearl Thusi keeps her hair looking so fabulousBy the time you read this, South Africans with access to DStv will have had a chance to watch the season premiere. Expect some wailing and gnashing of teeth when local viewers realise that Thusi does not have a single line of dialogue in the first episode, though we do get visual flashes of her a number of times. (Hopefully they'll 'ungag' her and she'll get more lines as the series progresses.)The inaugural glimpse of Thusi on the world stage comes when we see her having all her possessions knocked out of her hands while descending some stairs. Is this a mugging? No, because we ain't in Jozi. It's a way of informing her that she's been tapped to join an elite group being trained as CIA analysts.The group must live together in a shadowy CIA commune known as The Farm. This must be where Thuli Madonsela (or Thoolie, as Americans would call her) went to be trained by her CIA handlers before she started plotting regime change in her role as public protector.To prove themselves, the recruits are required to demonstrate excellence in skills like lying and backstabbing. Quantico's portrayal of the CIA's internal dynamics makes ANC branch meetings look like tea time at a Buddhist retreat.The makers of Quantico promised that season two would be "less confusing", but you'll still need your wits about you. The show jumps back and forward in time. The past-tense scenes are the ones with Thusi and her tjommies training at The Farm.quanticoCurrent-day events centre on terrorists taking world leaders hostage at a meeting of the G20. Mysteriously, the terrorists will only communicate their demands in Kiswahili, but an interpreter is quick to make the point that their accents reveal they are definitely not from "that region".That vague phrasing makes it sound suspiciously as if the show's writers couldn't be bothered to look up where Swahili is actually spoken. Next time they must sommer ask Pearl: representing for the continent.Watch the second episode of 'Quantico' season two on DStv Vuzu Amp at 20:33 tonight.