The fairies have their own special spot, as do the selfie junkies and cigar aficionados.A soft mist occasionally makes an appearance as if to enhance the ambience of Granny Mouse Country House and Spa, nestled in the foothills of the Drakensberg.Call them quirks of this Midlands establishment, or features perhaps. Weekend Escape: Brookdale Health Hydro in the MidlandsWhatever they are, it's the little things that make the "Mouse House" (as it is known) somewhat unique.The first thing that struck me as we trundled down the country road towards Granny Mouse for our stay was the massive selfie frame at the entrance. The first of its kind on the Midlands Meander, it's there to encourage savvy social-media users to promote Granny Mouse, by posting pictures online.For once I was not in selfie-mode, as Mother Nature's icy hand steered us away from the photo opp in search of some warmth.Apart from the light mist and rain, our welcome also included two glasses of bubbly and a receptionist as warm as her cosy domain.Our tour of the main house kicked off with the lounges, with their overstuffed chairs and crackling fireplaces - just what the doctor ordered for that chilly afternoon.Next up was the well-stocked pub with its fine whiskies, brandies and other alcoholic concoctions.We were then ushered to the cellar, which boasts a wall-to-wall collection of sterling wines - and later a quick whizz past the cigar lounge.With the rain pounding, we dashed down the paved path to our "residence" for the evening.Along the way, I spotted the place where the fairies are said to converge - a little patch in the well-tended garden, reserved for ethereal beings.It certainly added charm, I mused. If you do nothing but sit by the fireplace sipping on red wine while absorbing the tranquility, it's worth the visit The spaciousness and luxury of the room impressed me - from the window seat overlooking the misty hills to the miniature fireplace, king-size bed and the pi ce de r sistance, a bathtub fit for a queen, complete with lavender bath oils and fluffy white robes.If you do nothing but sit by the fireplace sipping on red wine while absorbing the tranquility, it's worth the visit.The Mouse House is a place to escape the "madding crowd" and reconnect with yourself and nature. Throw in a bit of a pampering at the in-house spa and some fine dining and you have yourself an ideal getaway. Weekend Escape: How the KZN cows wowedThe Eaves restaurant offers a degustation menu - which allows foodies a sampling of the chef's signature dishes, including chickpea and garlic puff pastry parcel; dill and verbena sous-vide kingklip and house smoked lamb loin. There's also an la carte menu.For dinner, we chose the less fussy Bistro, where starters include pulled duck pocket with spicy citrus sauce, curried fish, soft poached egg, cucumber and greens, crumbed snails and polenta, with crumbled goats cheese.As for the mains, I can vouch for the Cajun calamari, grilled to perfection and accompanied by a portion of spinach, mushroom and garlic onion green beans.Dessert was a delightful affair of baked apple tart, Rooibos ice-cream and muesli crumble.Well watered and fed, we retired to our deluxe room for the night, hoping the resident fairies would convince Mr Sandman to make our slumber at the Mouse House sweet. Go, Go, Go! WHERE IT IS: In the KZN Midlands, at the foot of the Central Drakensberg, a two-hour drive from Durban and a four-hour drive from Johannesburg.WHY GO THERE: It lives up to its reputation of being a "home away from home". There's the award-winning cuisine and wine, plus the elegant accommodation options. Also, with its location on the famous Midlands Meander, there's no shortage of culinary activities, from eating Belgian chocolates to trying out the craft beer.WHAT IT HAS: Granny Mouse offers 32 luxurious rooms, located within the gardens or looking over the meandering Lions River. Each room has been elegantly decorated with warm, inviting d cor, modern bathrooms, private balconies and individual fireplaces for romantic winter evenings. The on-site spa offers a host of treatments including a hydro-bath, massages, manicures, pedicures, facials and speciality treatments for expectant moms. And there's the wedding chapel, for those taking the plunge.RATES: From October 1 until April 30 2017, from R2,475 for a garden room to R3,531 for a deluxe suite, all per room per night. See Granny Mouse Country House and Spa. Govender was a guest of Granny Mouse Country House and Spa.