However, the International Cricket Council's clampdown on slow over-rates and deadened pitches have put paid to that. Perth though still provides a home for teams who have four seriously good fast bowlers.It is at the Western Australia Cricket Association (Waca) Ground that fast bowlers are most at home.The Proteas have enjoyed the remote western outpost with two wins and a draw. ABout the man... What AB De Villiers absence will mean to the side that plays AustraliaThe 24500-seater Waca Ground is in its last days as a test match venue as the 60000 capacity Burswood Stadium nears completion in just under 18 months time.Former provincial, franchise and international teammate Andre Nel understands Morkel's importance to the team but says he needs the series of his life to keep the wolves at bay.While he has a perfectly respectable 242 wickets at 29.33 in 71 tests, his back injury-enforced absence allowed Vernon Philander, Dale Steyn and Kagiso Rabada to lock in the three seam bowling slots in the New Zealand series.He also spent time on the sidelines in the Tri-Nations series in the West Indies in June and was only roped in for the Barbados leg of the competition when conditions allowed for more pace bowlers."If he gets an opportunity to play, he needs to do well but if he struggles and doesn't go as well as he planned, it could be a defining moment in his career," Nel said."He may need to carry on elsewhere and he also needs to look after his family. I'll be very surprised if he plays in all three tests but he has to make sure he can prove his worth to the test side."There's a lot of danger that Morne can bring in Australia, especially with the extra bounce that's available along with the pace. It's going to be tricky because there have been other bowlers who have been performing while he's been injured. There's also the concern that he may not be match fit even though he came through nicely for the Titans last week but he will know what to do to get ready for international cricket." The will to perform becomes paramount when you know there's someone who can take your place in the team. Former Proteas left-arm fast bowler Brett Schultz never had the opportunity to play in Perth due to smart Australian scheduling.South Africa never played in Perth when Makhaya Ntini, Shaun Pollock and Allan Donald were at their fastest.While he acknowledged Morkel may have to do time on the sidelines, Schultz said the 32-year-old can be a better bowler if he fights for his place in the team but there's the problem of finding a decent batsmen within the bowlers."The will to perform becomes paramount when you know there's someone who can take your place in the team. You've got a lot more intensity to perform and with him, Vernon, Dale and Kagiso, you've got very different bowlers who bring variety into the attack. They all bring something different," Schultz said."You have to look at the tall bowlers like Mitchell Starc and the bounce they are able to extract from those pitches, which makes Morkel difficult to leave out but he hasn't played that much cricket."Swing plays a big role but bounce is the major weapon in Australia. The one other problem with playing four seamers is having your tail starting at No8."That's the fine line the selectors need to cross and while the other guys have scored runs, you need tangible contributors at eight and nine while fitting in a spinner."