Our clothes, how we wear them, where we wear them, and what we wear them with is something that has been evolving since the beginning of time.What women choose to wear is largely influenced by societal perspectives, and while our clothes not only reflect our preferred tastes and conveniences, liberties gained over time see women being able to repurpose clothing traditionally associated with private spaces, bringing it into the public domain.While fashion is constantly evolving, it also goes through many cycles - one of which we are experiencing now with the return of the slip dress.6 trendy slip dresses you'll want for your summer wardrobeEverybody loves a good throwback and while many fashion thought leaders think of the 1990s as the golden era of the slip dress, it is important to note its beginnings can be traced back to the 1700s, when Queen Marie Antoinette took to wearing the chemise la reine.The chemise was worn mostly during leisure time and was a convenient alternative to the stiff bodices and gowns worn by French women in wealthy society.With a design that was loose fitting, made from light fabric and shaped by a drawstring around the waist, the chemise was perceived as a type of undergarment. Thus it came as no surprise when a portrait of a chemise-wearing Marie Antoinette seen on exhibition in 1783 caused an outcry as people protested what they perceived as the indecency of the queen's attire.Fast forward to the 1920s when an updated version of the slip dress was popularised by Flapper girls who wore them as undergarments. These Gatsby-era slips were made to match dresses that were mostly sheer, with low necklines and lace straps.Over the next couple of decades, the slip would remain an undergarment out of fashion's eye - until the '90s when it took the fashion world by storm.Before we get there, it is worth thinking about some of the fashions that came out of the '80s - the colours, the silhouettes (oversized blazers and big shoulders), the hair (think perms) - everything was big and bold. In contrast, the '90s came with its minimalist tones, and nothing spells minimalism more clearly than the slip dress.In 1993 Kate Moss was captured in an unforgettable metallic sheer slip dress at an Elite Models party in London. The slip would go on to be her uniform of choice throughout the decade.</img>Slip dress by Capetonian designer Stefania Morland. Image: African Fashion International Slip dress by Capetonian designer Stefania Morland. Image: African Fashion International</img> Slip dress by Ashish. Image: Catwalking/Getty ImagesSlip dress by Ashish. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images</img>Slip dress by Celine. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images Slip dress by Celine. Image: Catwalking/Getty ImagesThe other poster woman for the slip has to be Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker) from the hit TV series Sex and the City. In one of the earliest episodes of the show, she introduced us to the infamous "naked dress", a short, nude slip that she wore on a promotional shoot for her weekly column.The image of her in that dress would go on to be plastered on the side of the bus we would see after the opening credits on every episode. It is also worth noting that Bradshaw wore the dress on her first date with the infamous Mr Big.As fate would have it, she would wear another slip dress, this time black with lace trimmings, on her farewell date with Mr Big before he left New York. This episode, titled "I Heart NY", was dedicated to the city after the tragic events of 9/11.And who could forget the Dior slip dress Princess Diana wore to the 1996 Met Gala? The navy, floor-length dress with lace straps was one of John Galliano's first creations for the fashion house. The hit teen show Clueless also gave us a few fashion gems.Cher (played by Alicia Silverstone) became famous for her tartan skirts, knee-high socks and short velvet slip dresses in the '90s. Similar ones have recently been recreated by Mr Price.</img>Slip dress by Calvin Klein. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images Slip dress by Calvin Klein. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images</img> Slip dress by Vera Wang. Image: Catwalking/Getty ImagesSlip dress by Vera Wang. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images</img>Slip dress by Narciso Rodriguez. Image: Catwalking/Getty Images Slip dress by Narciso Rodriguez. Image: Catwalking/Getty ImagesMy personal slip dress moments come from Diana Ross and Jennifer Lopez. Ross's black and white portrait, an outtake of cover art from her 1995 album Take Me Higher, shot by Ruven Afanador, has her wearing an elegant slip, with her afro in all its glory.And I'll never forget the dawn of the new millennium when JLO broke it down in the salsa while wearing a short silver slip in the futuristic video for her 1999 hit single If You Had My Love.Two decades later and the slip dress has been reincarnated by designers both on local and international runways. Nandi Mngoma and Inga Madyibi gave us a Grecian-inspired slip at the recent Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Johannesburg, while C line contrasted a dainty lace slip with grunge-like ankle boots.Calvin Klein (one of the designers at the forefront of the slip movement in the '90s) kept it simple with a silver slip and white sneakers. It seems designers are taking on the sleek silhouette, borrowing from the old and interpreting it into the new.Off the runway, the slip dress has found fans in everyone from Rihanna to Kendall Jenner and continues to be a sexy, liberating and easy-to-wear style, with a 21st-century appeal that is surely here to stay.