Ten pieces by world-renowned local artists Norman Catherine, David Koloane, Peter Bongani Shange, Percy Konqobe, Willie Bester and Penny Siopis will be auctioned by Sotheby's next week.They form part of Bowie's private collection of about 350 pieces.Bowie did not limit himself to British art, and had bought paintings, drawings, sculpture, prints and photographs. The collection has been on preview in London, Los Angeles, New York and Hong Kong.Bowie, who first visited South Africa in early 1995 for the first Johannesburg Biennale exhibition, bought the art for his wife Iman.The musician and artist, who died earlier this year, described his experience of the biennale "as mind-jarringly moving as any major art-thing I've seen, East, West or Middle, in any year".</img>'South African postcard II' by Penny Siopis will also go under the Sotheby's hammer. Image: Supplied'South African postcard II' by Penny Siopis will also go under the Sotheby's hammer. Image: SuppliedHe later campaigned for his friend Bernard Jacobson to hold an exhibition of contemporary South African art to coincide with the Africa95 festival of African Arts held in the UK.Catherine said his work, Fanagalo Store, which is estimated to fetch between R170,000 and R255,000, was bought by Bowie before the Mayibuye exhibition opened at the Bernard Jacobson Gallery in London in 1995."It was the first of its kind that I had done using the small painted wooden sculptures arranged in rows on shelves. Obviously I was very honoured and happy as I had always been a big fan of his music since the 1970s."In 2,000 a book on my work was published by Goodman Gallery and David Bowie wrote a foreword for it. I gifted him with a thank-you piece of him holding a microphone. It was also going to be on the auction but the family decided to withdraw it to keep," said Catherine.</img>One of the works in David Bowie's art collection, called 'What Happened in the Western Cape?' Artist Willie Bester reflects on his life as a designated 'other coloured' under the apartheid regime. Image: Supplied One of the works in David Bowie's art collection, called 'What Happened in the Western Cape?' Artist Willie Bester reflects on his life as a designated 'other coloured' under the apartheid regime. Image: SuppliedHe hoped the piece would realise its market value, he said.Cape Town artist Siopis said she was aware that Bowie had purchased her work titled South African postcard II."I felt very happy, because I love his music and I was told that he had bought it for his wife, Iman," said Siopis.