A TALE OF TWO PASSPORTSCan you tell me what the position is regarding having dual passports?A friend who is a South African citizen wants to travel to Europe but is not too sure whether she can leave South Africa on her SA passport and enter Germany on her Swiss passport (if she is allowed to have one according to SA laws).She would then travel around Europe on her Swiss passport and use her South African passport to re-enter SA . - Mrs MS Zurlinden Ask Andrew: Can you trust internet travel agents?She can do all of the above. Dual passports mean just that: both are valid and can be used as you wish, usually to avoid visa requirements, such as, in this case, the Schengen visa, which she would need if she entered Germany on a South African passport.She can enter visa-free on her Swiss passport.CURRENT VISA, EXPIRED PASSPORTI have a new British passport as my previous one expired. In my old passport is my South African resident's permit. I have the original document dated April 30 1969.Can you please tell me if I can travel with both passports showing the resident's permit and the original document or do I need to get it added to the new passport?I have called Home Affairs on many occasions and, when you do finally get through, they don't seem to know anything. - Lynne JoffeYou can travel with a valid visa in an old passport, so long as you have a valid passport as well, I would imagine that the same principle would apply to residents' permits.You are more likely to get a clear answer from Home Affairs if you actually visit an office.Why would you want to travel with two passports? Ask for it to be put into your new passport anyway, and if it's really unnecessary they will say so.</img>The streets of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. SA passport holders need a visa to enter the country. Image: iStockThe streets of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. SA passport holders need a visa to enter the country. Image: iStockETHIOPIA - WHEN TO GET YOUR VISAI'm going to Ethiopia for a very short trip, November 18 to 21.A man at Ethiopian Airlines said I could just get a visa on arrival but the man at the Visa International office says I should absolutely get it in advance, although it will cost quite a bit extra. Any thoughts? - Nancy RichardsThe SA Department of International Relations and Cooperation website says you do need a visa but does not elaborate.You can get a tourist visa (valid for up to three months), unless you are of Eritrean or Somali origin, issued to you on arrival only at Addis Ababa Bole International Airport.You will need two passport photographs and at least US$50 in cash to pay for it.You never know how long it will take to get a visa on arrival, so even if it does cost a little more, I would advise you get it beforehand to get through the airport as quickly as possible. The Ethiopian embassy is at 47 Charles Street in Pretoria. Phone 012-346-3542/2947.PAPERS REQUIRED FOR A CRUISE TO MOZAMBIQUEMy family and I are travelling to Portuguese Island in December by cruise. Do we need a visa? What else should we make sure we have? - Dumisani ButheleziPortuguese Island is part of Mozambique and South African citizens do not need a visa to visit. You should, of course, make sure you have a valid passport with you. These details should be handled by the cruise line. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za