His is the force of nature that functions like a lightning conductor - channelling the wild and disparate energies that float about in the ether and forging them into a lightning bolt that precisely captures the current mood and preference of the moment.Whether he is applying this talent to film, fashion collections, accessories or perfume, Tom Ford is the king of a certain kind of style alchemy.In the decade since Tom Ford launched the now iconic Black Orchid fragrance in the classic art deco-inspired bottle, the scent has reached the status of a cult classic.At the time he was interviewed by Chandler Burr, renowned New York Times perfume critic and author of The Emperor of Scent. Ford said of the process of creating Black Orchid: "No one can say, 'I'm going to create an iconic fragrance that will last for 50 years,' but everyone aims at it." 'The Edit' e-zine: Spring/Summer 2016Ten years later he can probably take a bow. Of the thinking behind the scent which attempted to capture something that did not exist at the time - the elusive black orchid - Ford said, "We want to move away from minimalism, we want ornament, luxe tassels, but we have to find a way not just to regurgitate it. You have to put your stamp on it."The resulting perfume evokes a sense of timeless luxury and worldly glamour with a dash of the great classics of the past. Just like the women that Ford chooses as muses for his collections, like the great and timeless Julianne Moore and Marisa Berenson. These powerful, intelligent, sensual and elegant women embody the rare bloom, which Ford describes as: "The perfect flower ... luxurious, elegant, pure and sophisticated."Burr's conclusion at the time was that Black Orchid was "absolutely huge, as edgy, as daring, as off-the rails (more actually) as anything produced by a niche house."Ten years later the world appears to be in absolute concord. It is a scent that has grown in stature and popularity without losing any of that initial mystery and delight. 6 INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT TOM FORD BLACK ORCHID Over 30 raw ingredients used in the scent. The top note: Opens with a sensuous blend of black truffle and ylang mingled with fresh bergamot and black currant. The heart: a dramatic fragrance unfolds, blended with dark florals, rich fruit accords and intoxicating lotus wood. The noir gourmand accord: Chandler Burr says, "Ninety-five percent of what we perceive as taste is in fact smell. Ninety-five percent of what we think we're tasting on the tongue we are actually registering in the olfactory receptors of the nasal epithelium." It is balanced by patchouli, incense and vetiver. vanilla adds a creaminess to warm balsam and sandalwood. The jet black bottle is inspired by art deco lines, the fluted glass and the bespoke details of the hand-tied cord speak of the sophistication and glamour of a '30s film noir star, in a contemporary iteration.