It was made abundantly clear that weak GDP growth, revised down to 0.5% from 0.9% in the February budget speech, has led to lower tax revenue, which runs the risk of increasing the fiscal deficit, unless you reduce expenditure more aggressively - otherwise you will be forced to fund the shortfall through borrowing. And that, in turn, increases the cost of the borrowing.In the famous words uttered by former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene two months before he was fired, in the very same speech last year, "without economic growth, revenue will not increase.Without revenue growth, expenditure cannot increase". He repeated this four times during the speech. Power play: why saving is toughMinister Des van Rooyen didn't get a chance to say anything, but, not to be outdone, Gordhan delivered his own parable-inspired caution, which he also repeated during his speech."Lions who fail to work as a team will struggle to bring down even a limping buffalo," he said.With all the political dynamics around us, the minister got tongues wagging about who the "limping buffalo" could be, and, perhaps more important, who these "lions not working together" to topple this buffalo could be. Anyway, I digress.The medium-term budget's focus on economic growth and its importance not only to the fiscus but to all levers of our prosperity as a country reminded me of the executive director of Oxfam International, Winnie Byanyima, and what she said at the World Economic Forum on Africa in May this year."I think we focus too much on the figure of growth. Is it 10%? Is it 6%? I think the right question should be: Is this growth creating jobs? Is this growth raising the standard of living of all our people? It's the quality of the growth that's key here. Growth has been delinked from inequality and poverty. We need to bring back that link," she said.When I started working, I visited home often, especially on weekends. Every Saturday afternoon without fail I would get a visit from one of my childhood neighbours who didn't complete high school and had been unemployed for as long as I can remember.He would knock at the door and ask for me. I would come out and do the awkward "Hey, how's it going?" greeting when it was obvious that it was not going well at all.He would ask me for R5. Then it became R7.50, and then R10, and so on. This was the price of a "quart" - a 750ml bottle of beer.Interestingly, he never asked me to help him get a job or help fund the completion of his studies. No. Just for a quart. Surely Zuma knows it is time to go?As critical as growth is to our development and prosperity, eradicating inequality and the systems that sustain it is as crucial.Indeed, what is the point of economic growth if it doesn't benefit all our people?The #FeesMustFall movement and the progress it has forced from civil society and the government is one way of dealing with systems we all know are unjust but for some reason have tolerated, and instead we chase this holy grail of economic growth but forget to ask if it affects the people.Almost every graduate of my generation knows that a key injustice of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme is its minimum requirements and how it prejudices the "missing middle" - those not rich enough to pay their fees but not destitute enough to meet the requirements.I don't know if the R600,000 threshold is the right one, but it is definitely a step in the right direction. But did it have to take us this long, and with all the pain of student uprisings, to get here?I suspect it's because we are too focused on the quantity of economic growth and not enough on the quality.Khumalo is the chief investment officer of MSG Afrika Group and presents "Power Business" on Power98.7 at 5pm, Monday to Thursday