The Grand and Good Nestled in the heart of Paris lies South Pigalle, a neighbourhood famous for its hedonism and also the new playground of Parisian hipsters. This is where you will find the Grand Pigalle Hotel, recently opened by the Experimental Group and designed by Doroth e Meilichzon from Studio Chzon.At the corner of rues Victor Mass and Henry Monnier, the hotel is situated in a classic Parisian building with 37 rooms, each with a charming balcony overlooking the tree-lined streets. The rooms are designed with rich detailing consisting of aged and textured wallpaper, brass fittings and decorative elements. The vintage tiling, together with original mouldings and fireplaces, is still intact, giving the hotel a uniquely Bohemian spirit. The ground floor wine bar and restaurant provide a cool, cultivated and casual space - day and night - where visitors can enjoy great food and be surrounded by the creative pulse of the city - a place where I felt truly at home.grandpigalle.com The Return of 1920s Nostalgia In the 1920s, this charming hotel was filled with members of high society and it was definitely a place to be and to be seen. It later closed down and became a clinic, but more recently the Hotel Bachaumont has been restored to its former glory. Design delights from Paris's Maison & Objet Its old charm has been reinvented with a contemporary twist - making it, once again, an "it" place to be. Studio Chzon impresses with their selection of rich detailing, beautiful marble and wood accents and custom-designed furniture.Throughout the establishment, Stilnovo lighting adds to the Art Deco theme. The rooms are well designed with luxurious yet minimal elements and the balconies have magical views of Paris. I really enjoyed the glorious bathrooms, with their vintage tap fittings and lavish tiling surrounded by clean and cool colours. The restaurant and Night Flight bar have an intimate feel during the day, looking out onto the buzzing cobbled streets, and quietly transform by night into an elegant space serving delightful signature cocktails and modern French cuisine synonymous with the Experimental Group's "effortless style". hotelbachaumont.com