Lupita Nyong'o stars as Nakku Harriet, the mother of an uneducated chess prodigy discovered in the slums of Katwe, Kampala in Uganda.Here are six things you might not have known about this Oscar-winning actress:1) She's often referred to as a 'Kenyan actress', but she wasn't born in AfricaShe was born in Mexico City, but raised in Kenya. Her family moved there before she turned one. WATCH: A film will not be able to change things in Africa, says Lupita Nyong'o2) She's stylish, but not label consciousNyong'o usually gets rave reviews for her red carpet looks, but she hasn't always worn designer duds. As teenager, her wardrobe came from second-hand clothing dealers in Kenya's slums.3) Her hatred for hair relaxers led to her shaving her headShe wears her hair naturally and hates relaxers so much that she shaved off her hair when she was 19. She was reacting to a joke her father made about all the time his daughters spent at the hair salon, saying she should "just cut it all off". "So I did, and my mother was not amused!" says the actress.</img>The character Maz Kanata in 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' was voiced by Lupita Nyong'o. Image: SuppliedThe character Maz Kanata in 'Star Wars: The Force Awakens' was voiced by Lupita Nyong'o. Image: Supplied4) She's barely been on screen since winning an OscarNyong'o won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her part in 12 Years a Slave, which opened in cinemas in 2013. This was followed by a role in the action movie Non-Stop in 2014.Since then she hasn't had a lot of screen time... but her voice has. She lent her voice to Mowgli's adoptive wolf mother, Raksha, in The Jungle Book, and alien Maz Kanata in Star Wars: The Force Awakens.5) She and Queen of Katwe director Mira Nair go way backNair and Nyong'o are old family acquaintances. Her father and Nair's husband are best friends, so the director has watched Nyong'o grow up.Before she won her Oscar, Nyong'o also worked as Nair's intern during filming of The Namesake.6) She has high profile parentsShe is the daughter of a prominent Kenyan politician, Peter Anyang' Nyong'o. Her mother, Dorothy, is the managing director of the Africa Cancer Foundation.DON'T MISS IT: Read our exclusive interview with Nyong'o in the Sunday Times on October 16, 2016.