What does Studium do?We are a multidisciplinary design studio, motivated by all types of design from architecture to interiors, ceramics and textiles. We do residential, corporate and retail projects, and satisfy our more playful sides by dabbling in textiles, ceramics and furniture.You launched your furniture range with a drinks cabinet. Why?We wanted to start out with something that was playful. The concept we had in mind with the colour and the graphic shapes was fun, so we felt it should be used in a celebratory piece. We hoped to create something that could be used for an occasion and when not being used, it can add value and joy to a space.Why are the materials you used in this cabinet significant?We have an interest in local craftsmanship and are inspired by traditional southern African weaving. We wanted to use this in a way that hasn't been done before, and show how it can be used as an interesting texture on larger pieces of furniture. The process, from concept to execution, was quite an experimental experience.Original ideas had to be altered and shifted as time was limited. As a result we found solutions which led to a very interesting outcome. Using spray paint on a natural weave, for example, allowed us to use colours and shapes that are not possible to achieve with a natural weave. In a way it became about juxtaposing two different elements, a natural handmade material with artificial colour, as well as the precise machine-made steel frame with an imperfect handmade weave, woven by craftswomen in Swaziland. This created an interesting visual dialogue between the industrial and natural materials.</img>A design by Studium Design. Image: SuppliedA design by Studium Design. Image: SuppliedWere there any production challenges?There was a challenge at every turn! I think we made our fabricators turn grey overnight. They were willing to resolve problems with us, even inventing a hinge to hold the heavy round doors. We were extremely grateful to have had their willing hands and minds on board.What's the most exciting thing to happen in Studium's life so far?Being accepted to be part of the 'A New Wave' of designers for Southern Guild and getting this piece of furniture made for them.What's next?We're developing concepts and ideas for our next pieces. It's important for us to create original, well-made designs that are accessible. We're also passionate about creative collaborations.Summer drinks to enjoy from your cabinet?Mojitos and infused gin and tonics.A design tip for our readers?Don't be afraid of colour.Visit www.studiumdesignoffice.com and find them on their instagram @studiumdesignoffice