1) GABRI LSKLOOFThe Gabri lskloof wine estate in Botrivier in the Overberg is a family-run business. The estate's olive orchards - featuring coratina, frantoio and leccino cultivars, the mainstays of Tuscan-style oil - are grown on the sunny slopes and benefit from the cool Mediterranean-style climate, producing small, flavour-intense fruit.2) GREENLEAFEstablished in 2005, this family-owned and run olive estate is situated near Swellendam along the banks of the Breede River. With 300ha of nine different cultivars, Greenleaf's vision is to provide consumers with quality olive oil at affordable prices. 3 great bakes to make with olive oil3) KRANSFONTEIN CORATINAThe olive farm (on a property once owned by author Wilbur Smith) lies near Stilbaai along the banks of the Goukou River. Each cultivar - mission, coratina and frantoio - is harvested, pressed and bottled separately. The coratina trees were imported from the Puglia region and the fruit is medium-sized and egg shaped. The strong peppery flavour is due to its high polyphenol levels. The olive oil is strong, fruity and peppery. Visit riethuiskraal.co.za4) MARBRIN OLIVE GROWERS INTENSEEstablished in 1997, this family-run boutique olive farm near Robertson in the Breede River Valley produces premium olive oil and other olive products. Marbrin's extra virgin olive oils are a blend of frantoio, coratina and mission cultivars. They offer tours and tastings on the farm.5) WILLOW CREEK DIRECTOR'S RESERVESituated in the Nuy Valley between Worcester and Robertson where the terroir is perfectly suited to the cultivation of olives, the estate planted its first olive trees in 1999. To date, 210,000 trees of selected cultivars have been established on 280ha. The 2016 season has proven to be the best to date, delivering 21 awards both locally and internationally. Visit willowcreek.co.za HOW TO JUDGE A GOOD OLIVE OIL The best olive oil is cold extracted extra virgin, with full retention of all the flavours and health-promoting constituents. However, as with wines, good quality olive oil is defined by its chemical and physical properties as well as its taste and aroma. The specific cultivar or blend of cultivars used, ripeness of fruit, area of origin and climate influence the aroma, flavour, colour and mouthfeel of oil."Extra virgin" and "virgin" denote olive oils that are completely natural and unrefined. All other oils can be assumed to be refined or to contain a proportion of refined olive oil. These blends are usually sold as "pure olive oil", "olive oil" or "light olive oil".