Can you give a short history of Douglas &amp; Company? We both studied architecture and have been fortunate to hone our skills and gain experience in architecture and the creative industry locally and abroad. Douglas &amp; Company started as an experimental side project to our "real" day jobs. With two successful years exhibiting at 100% Design South Africa, and a design piece showing as part of 'A New Wave' exhibition at Southern Guild, we still have to pinch ourselves that the DO&amp;CO design dream is a reality. Meet the Makers: Michelle van Reenen & Nina Berolsky of Room 13 CollectionCan you describe your brand in three words? Experimental, contextual, rigorous.What are you working on now? We recently launched a new furniture range, and there are more collectable design pieces taking shape in our sketchbooks. On the architecture side, The Brickhouse, a residential project in Gauteng, is nearing completion on site, and we have a new residential renovation project on the drawing board.What inspires you? We stay curious to stay inspired, and try to look at our surroundings with awe. The opulent nature and abundant variety of natural material is our muse.What do you enjoy doing when you're not designing? We enjoy getting lost in foreign (and local) cities whenever we can. We're both fond of reading (JM Coetzee, Paul Auster, Etienne le Roux and Don de Lillo are some favourites), and believe that these narratives provide a useful insight into contemporary life. To keep our feet tapping, we listen to BBC 6 Music. We relish the rare moments of doing nothing and usually celebrate these with a good bottle of wine.</img>Chic furnishings from Douglas & Company. Image: Supplied Chic furnishings from Douglas & Company. Image: SuppliedHow did you end up designing furniture?We're interested in designing "complete" environments, so it feels like a natural extension to be concerned with the smaller-scale interior items we interact with on a daily basis. We believe that good design requires the ability to work in multiple scales, and the transition between size and proportions is complementary to the process and refinement of products. Many modern classic furniture designs were conceived by architects - think the Wassily Chair by Marcel Breuer and Chaise Longue by Le Corbusier. Working on a smaller scale also gives us the chance to experiment with a wider materials palette. One rarely gets the opportunity to "prototype" large structures, so it's an added benefit to test ideas in smaller pieces and then be able to incorporate these tailor-made products as part of architectural projects.Who and what influences your design style? We're in favour of simplicity in architecture and design and try to abide by Dieter Rams's principles of good design, in particular "good design is as little design as possible". Our approach is based on a contextual response and we also like to experiment with materials, textures and colours to create items and spaces that exude some of the life and richness inherited from these materials. We try to stay true to the eclectic nature of items created, and not to tone it down to be more in line with current trends.A product you'd love to make one day? An unselfconscious chair.A design tip for our readers?Invest in timeless, classic pieces.