After the findings of new research published last week in the British Journal of Sports Medicine rounded up some major health benefits of golf, and with the Safeway Open taking place this week in California, USA, you might be feeling inspired to give golf a go. Here are 10 reasons to get outside and start practicing your swing.1. Burn kilojoules and stay in shapeAs golf provides moderate intensity workout golfers can benefit from many health benefits just by playing their favorite sport. After reviewing over 5,000 papers for their study as part of the Golf &amp; Health Project, researchers from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland found that golfers who play a round of 18 holes can typically expect to walk 11,000 to 17,000 steps, about 6.4 to 12.9km and burn approximately 5,021 kilojoules over 18 holes. Even using the golf cart has its benefits, as you'll still walk 6,000 steps over about 6.4km and burn around 2,510 kilojoules over 18 holes. Hole in one: A fairway to longevity2. Prevent diseaseGolf also has the health benefits associated with other moderately intense workouts, including preventing and treating more than 40 major chronic diseases such as heart attacks, stroke, diabetes, breast and colon cancer, and a lower risk of hip fractures.3. Improve balance and strengthAlthough it still needs some more research, the findings from this latest study show that balance and muscle endurance in older people are improved by playing the sport.4. Respiratory benefitsRegular participation in the sport leads to improved and maintained lung function in older adults.5. Boost mental health Although more studies are needed in this area, it seems the benefits of golf aren't just physical. The research from the Golf &amp; Health project suggests that golf can increase sense of self-esteem, self-worth, and self-confidence, and a reduced risk of anxiety, depression and dementia.6. Live longerAnd if the physical and mental benefits aren't enough, when compared to non-golfers, lead author of the study Dr. Andrew Murray notes that golfers also live around five years longer than non-golfers.Why you may NEED to go in the sun without sunscreen7. Get some fresh airGetting out into nature and soaking up some vitamin D also bring additional health benefits. However make sure to also wear sunscreen, seek the shade where possible, and cover appropriately to avoid a risk of sunburn, and possibly skin cancer. 8. Low risk of injuryPay attention to your back, wrists and elbow as they are susceptible to injury when golfing, but overall golfers enjoy a low risk of injury.9. It's a social sportA game of golf is a great way to spend time with friends and make new ones, which in turn has health benefits of its own as well as making sport more fun.10. Golf is for everyoneThese health benefits and the game can also be enjoyed by everyone, with the study also finding that the physical benefits of golf increase with age, with the sport's physical and mental health benefits seen in people of all ages, genders and backgrounds.