Did being dismissed after the infamous Mbombela Dance of Shame - when the Bafana dunces danced in celebration of a qualification that never was for the 2012 African Nations Cup - hurt him?Yes, to the point of humiliation.It was an ungracious fall from grace. To his detractors, he was "knocked off his f^*#*ng perch", to borrow from one great of the game, Alex Ferguson. Mosimane shut down, licked his wounds and regrouped.SHAKE A LEG, MASHABADamn. Regroup he has! In phenomenal fashion, rising better than the proverbial phoenix. The six-month abeyance from the game saw his career crisscross towards a club at a crossroads.In four years, Mosimane's Midas touch has seen Mamelodi Sundowns become the royalty of African football in fairytale fashion.The metamorphosis of the man born in Kagiso, west of Johannesburg, 52 years ago, has been a marvel.He cut his coaching teeth at SuperSport United, then a happy-go-lucky lily-white team devoid of any identity.Durban-born Zimbabwean goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar, who gained world acclaim for his eccentric exploits for Liverpool, was United head coach in 1999."Pitso was the assistant. He had a fallout with Bruce. Bruce didn't want him around," recalls United chief executive Stan Matthews. "Back then, when you had a fallout with someone, you sent them to development for punishment."During his "punishment" Mosimane, also a club scout, together with the late Thomas Madigage, scoured the length and breadth of the land for latent talent. Seuntjie Motlhajwa, Cavan Sibeko, Gerald Modabi, Kermit Erasmus, Kamohelo Mokotjo and Ronwen Williams are some of a band of good young players unearthed by the duo.United were doing cheek-to-cheek with relegation. A seven match winless streak saw Grobbelaar get the sack in October 2001. The field was fertile for the unwanted assistant to step up.Mosimane has his late mate Madigage to thank for getting the big gig."Tommy was the strongest advocate for Pitso. He is the one who came to me and Imtiaz Patel [now MultiChoice CEO] and said 'give Pitso a chance, he won't let you down' and he didn't," says Matthews.The manner in which Mosimane, an enthusiastic novice driven by youthful exuberance embraced the challenge, told a tale of one destined for greatness.The former South African international striker who played for Ionikos in Greece, Rita Berlaar in Belgium and later joined Al Saad FC Doha in Qatar in the 1990s, lifted United to second spot at the end of the season.</img>Sundowns' owner Patrice Motsepe, right, and PSL chairman Irvin Khoza during Sundowns arrival and press conference at OR Tambo International Airport this week. Image: Lefty ShivambuSundowns' owner Patrice Motsepe, right, and PSL chairman Irvin Khoza during Sundowns arrival and press conference at OR Tambo International Airport this week. Image: Lefty ShivambuWhen he left seven years later, the cabinet was laden with SAA Supa8 (MTN8) and Absa Cup (Telkom Knockout) trophies. The team had finished second twice, third, fourth and seventh on the Premier Soccer League log standings.He had stamped his authority by giving United an identity of a shining brand of football called soek-soek (a short passing, carpet football approach sprinkled with captivating movement and anchored on forward moving possession play).There is an element of Mosimane's character that divides people into sharply opposing factions. Some see him as one with an abundance of confidence. Some are irritated by what they view as arrogance.Fact remains, he sticks to the courage of his conviction without any fear of contradiction. Matthews admires that Mosimane personality trait."He has a fiery personality. You're never gonna meet people who are 50-50 with Pitso. It's either you love him or you hate him. He is strong in his opinion. He's in your face. You've got to deal with it."Sometimes as South Africans we are scared to stand up and show that we have something to say. But we don't have to shy away and sit back and let others, especially Europeans, behave as if they know better than us," argues Matthews."Sometimes Pitso rubs people up the wrong way. But a lot of people can't match his work ethic and obsessiveness. He's always had a picture of himself as a big coach."Leading Sundowns to the Confederation of African Football Champions League title last Sunday places him in the big league of coaches.He is the first South African coach to do so - the late Ronald Mkhandawire, who was the Orlando Pirates caretaker coach when they won the title in 1995, was Zambian.The work ethic Matthews alludes to manifests itself in many ways. "There were times when he would stay behind at Caledonian Stadium (United's former home ground in Pretoria) to watch the game again and again on video." Part of the decision of whether we were going to sign the partnership depended on whether we had a good head of academy Mosimane's success, says Matthews, is not an accident."It is not a flash in the pan. It is hard work, dedication, passion and obsession. He is a big encyclopedia. He gathers and gathers and gathers information."When the two worked together at United, they embarked on numerous trips abroad. Two, in particular, stand out for Matthews.The first was when "we went together to Liverpool to look at their academy and first team set-up". "Pitso went to find a bookshop to get as many coaching books as possible.There was one book in particular by an American baseball coach. I was fascinated that he wanted to read a baseball book. He said he wanted to understand the ways of winning."The second trip was to the Netherlands. United were interested in forming an academy partnership with Dutch Eredivisie club Feyenoord Rotterdam.</img>Percy Tau of Mamelodi Sundowns celebrates after Sundowns win the 2016 CAF Champions League Final. Image: Gavin Barker/BackpagePixPercy Tau of Mamelodi Sundowns celebrates after Sundowns win the 2016 CAF Champions League Final. Image: Gavin Barker/BackpagePix"When we wanted to form our partnership with Feyenoord, Pitso and I went there. We met Rob Baan who was technical director. We left Pitso with him for a two days," recalls Matthews."Part of the decision of whether we were going to sign the partnership depended on whether we had a good head of academy."When we had the debrief two days later, Baan remarked that 'Pitso was one of the most knowledgeable people I've met, he's going to go places'. To get an endorsement like that from a top technician in the game gave Pitso such great confidence."This was 13 years ago and he was already identified as someone who has a really, truly, genuine football brain. He has come of age. He is reaping years and years of his own harvesting and I think he must enjoy it."Another man who is enjoying watching Mosimane bask in glory is Jomo Sono. Sundowns were scraping the bottom of the barrel when Mosimane crossed the t's and dotted the i's of a five year contract in 2012 Renowned as talent spotter extraordinaire, the 18-year-old Rockville Hungry Lions striker didn't escape the sharp eye of the Jomo Cosmos owner and coach in 1982. "I found him in Rockville in Soweto.He was scoring goals without a care in the world. At that time I was working with Screamer Tshabalala. I told him that I had seen a special boy. I went to watch him and signed both him and Black Sunday [Johnny Masegela]."Pitso was always a persistent, very talented striker. He is the best I've seen at Cosmos who could play with his back against defenders."He is not only very cocky and confident in his ability, he studies football in depth. He loves it. It is his life. He was always prepared to learn. You cannot be a coach just coaching for money. Some coaches are just worried about their CVs."In his two years at Cosmos, that cockiness was carried into match situations. Cosmos had a free kick. Sono was the designated set-piece specialist. But he had a rebel on his stoep.</img>Pitso Mosimane shows the Caf trophy during the Mamelodi Sundowns arrival and press conference at OR Tambo International Airport on October 26, 2016 in Johannesburg. Image: Lefty Shivambu/Gallo ImagesPitso Mosimane shows the Caf trophy during the Mamelodi Sundowns arrival and press conference at OR Tambo International Airport on October 26, 2016 in Johannesburg. Image: Lefty Shivambu/Gallo Images"I had just scored one freekick on the right. This one was on the left. I called to him to stand next to the ball as a decoy. 'I said they'll think you're taking it but I'll smash it. He said okay'.The next thing I knew, boom! Pitso took it and he scored a beautiful goal. That is a sign of arrogance and confidence combined."Sundowns were scraping the bottom of the barrel when Mosimane crossed the t's and dotted the i's of a five year contract in 2012. It was a commitment from Motsepe that he wanted him for a long haul.In biblical terms, Sundowns were like the children of Israel who needed to be led to the promised land. A bounty of false prophets came forth from Europe. They delivered zilch.It took a boy from Soweto.His odyssey with Sundowns has been outstanding. "Every accolade must go to Patrice and Pitso. It would have been painful and an injustice in God's eyes if they had lost it. Both of them have put so much in the game. Bravo," salutes Sono.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za