This week I was chatting to friends in London when the conversation turned to Halloween. "Are you carving pumpkins?" I asked their daughters, aged 10 and 13.The girls explained, with great excitement, that they were preparing to create "Trumpkins" - pumpkins carved into the shape of Donald Trump's face, with a black yawning space for an angry, open mouth.They were also considering doing a Hillary Clinton-style pumpkin, and showed me some online models to copy. Miracle on campaign trailBut as far as teens and tweens are concerned, it is the Trumpkin craze that is really spreading across social media. It's a measure of the trend's virality that it has travelled from the US to London. As one of my own daughters observed: "It's all over Instagram - it's the election. Duh."In some ways this is astonishing, whatever you think about Trump. In my early teens in '70s London, I was only vaguely interested in the UK elections, never mind the goings-on in the White House.True, my school would sometimes organise class discussions about Margaret Thatcher, but it would never have entered our heads to start carving Thatcher-style pumpkins.When British coal miners went on strike in the mid-'80s, they waved grotesque effigies of Thatcher (and "baddies" are still ritualistically burned on Bonfire Night). But most of my generation was politically apathetic; politicians seemed too darn dull to invade popular culture.Today, elections are anything but dull and are part of our national conversation, increasingly referenced in everything from comedy shows and catwalks to, yes, designs for Halloween pumpkins.This reflects some dark political developments, not least rising levels of acrimonious populism. But there is a silver lining to this cloud: almost everybody is aware that an important election is taking place, inflaming passions and prompting heated debate, even among adolescents. If you wanted to be pessimistic, you could argue that this was entirely the wrong kind of political awareness.A world in which kids are carving Trumpkins - or Clinton pumpkins - is not a place where politics seems to command respect. Instead, politicians have become figures of derision, entertainment and horror. Most pundits today presume that the scorched-earth tactics employed by Trump will leave a legacy of socially divisive and bitter politics, whoever wins The counterpart to Trump Halloween masks are polls that show disapproval levels for both presidential candidates at record highs (about 52% for Clinton and 60% for Trump) and levels of trust in Congress at a record low (about 9%).Still, at least this election is getting everyone, including kids, talking. In recent weeks the number of internet searches for words such as "racism", "sexism" and "feminism" has exploded in the US.I have heard endless conversations about immigration, the electoral process, gay rights and tax reforms - not just in the obvious places (such as newsrooms) but in bars, taxis, trains, and, yes, at the school gates.Children have been asking questions in a way I have rarely heard before (not least because many American parents would not let their kids watch the TV discussions about Trump's sexually aggressive language). The war talk showOne of the ironies of the campaign is that Trump's behaviour has done more to spark interest in feminism than anything Clinton has done. Maybe this is just a passing frenzy, which will fade soon after we toss those pumpkins into the bin. And all these words - and horrified laughter - may not translate into political deeds, or even persuade teenagers to head to the polls.One of the big problems with today's youth culture is that many digital natives think that "being involved in politics" means blogging, sending political tweets or posting something on Instagram. Turning cyber debate into tangible votes is hard.But it is also possible that a longer-term consequence of this year's election will be a new political awareness among voters about the electoral process and the value of voting.Most pundits today presume that the scorched-earth tactics employed by Trump will leave a legacy of socially divisive and bitter politics, whoever wins. It is also possible to imagine a counter-reaction. The sheer scale of vitriol might just prompt voters to seek a more sober style of politics in the future.After all, as the philosopher Friedrich Hegel observed, history moves through pendulum swings of thesis and antithesis (and then sometimes a brief synthesis of sorts).Maybe the current frenzy will be a tipping point. Or so it would be nice to hope. Those Trumpkins might yet have collectors' value.- The Financial Times