You don't have to wear a seatbelt - but you should hold on tight to your popcorn. The new 4DX cinema, a name which sounds appropriately futuristic, is open at Hyde Park Corner in the northern suburbs of Johannesburg (Cape Town and Durban were the first to get the multidimensional theatre).What exactly does one experience in a 4DX theatre? It's immersive cinema. Think of those roller-coaster rides in those weird containers that you used to get in shopping malls back in the day. This takes that concept of a virtual ride, slowing it down and making it an experience you can enjoy while watching a movie.Big blockbuster action movies or superhero films are best watched in 4DX - Dr Strange will be on in November and the Fast and Furious 8 is something to look forward to next year.One of the first movies to be screened at the new Hyde Park 4DX is Tim Burton's vision of the bestselling book Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children based on the bestselling young-adult book by Ransom Riggs. Ransom Riggs on making a movie with Tim BurtonBesides being a feast of particularly visual Burtonesque wonders, your other senses are fully engaged and aware. Beware: your seats move (a lot) back, up, down, sideways at different speeds in time with the action on the screen (under every seat is a computer that makes sure every movement is synchronised to that on screen).The wind blows when the characters are walking outside (there are powerful fans on either side of the cinema to create a feel of being at a seaside village in Wales - so take a jersey).Sometimes you can even smell the flowers or the sea.There are lighting effects and smoke and on a few occasions there's a spritz of mist from the chair in front of you when the scene calls for it (it's not a lot of water at all and therefore no need to be afraid, or to take raincoats).There's a sensor tube on your foot rest, so you get to feel like you are walking through the long grass or that there are bugs crawling up your legs.Then there's the cinema itself - enormously spacious, with plush seats set far apart and thick carpeting. The 3D screen is clear, not dark. Images almost literally jump out.And there are some images in this particular film that make you jump. As the story begins, protagonist Jake Butterman (Asa Butterfield, who also starred in Hugo) sees his seemingly crazy grandfather (Terence Stamp) die. His grandpa's eyes have been sucked out by a tentacled monster. (You might want to close yours.)Jake's friendly co-worker, who drove him to his grandpa's house, shoots the creature and here the special effects of the cinema take off. Bullets whoosh past your ears and the ground shakes beneath you as the monster steps towards Jake. And the sound is incredible as well.</img>The peculiar children from the movie Miss Peregrine s Home for Peculiar Children . The film is one of those in Nu Metro s new 4DX theatre. Image: SuppliedThe peculiar children from the movie Miss Peregrine s Home for Peculiar Children . The film is one of those in Nu Metro s new 4DX theatre. Image: SuppliedFrom there, it's a magical mystery bumpy ride. You can smell the sea air as Jake and his dad (IT Crowd's Chris O'Dowd) sail to Wales, where Jake is taken into a time loop by the weird children his grandfather spoke of.They are in a type of Groundhog Day that repeats itself endlessly before the orphanage is bombed by the Nazis, a bubble world in which they are protected from horrible humans as well as an evil society of monsters called Hollowgasts.The children are, as the title suggests, peculiar. They each have some sort of superpower. There's Emma, the love interest for Jake, played as insipidly well as she could by Ella Purnell, who is lighter than air and floats when she is not wearing her heavy boots.There's the invisible boy, a girl with a monster mouth on the back of her head, a girl with amazing strength (like Ant-Man) and another who can create fire with her hands, all fine fodder for a film experience of this sort.The movie is over two hours long - an indulgence that we are allowing directors to get away with too often these days - but Eva Green is wonderful as Miss Peregrine, as is Samuel L Jackson as the evil, sharp-toothed, child-eating leader of the Hollowgasts.The 4DX experience and the amazing action scenes jolt you out of any boredom you might otherwise be feeling at times; the fight scenes at the end are terrifyingly good.Burton shows his top-notch stop-motion skills and having the theatre simulate these in various ways makes the experience nothing short of incredible. 4DX delivers a cinema experience like nothing South Africans have ever seen, heard or felt before The 4DX theatre is part of the bigger Nu Metro Hyde Park cinema complex upgrade. All the cinemas in the mall are premier lounges. They are all Scene VIP theatres, which offer spacious recliner seating in a cosy environment - and will in December offer an a la carte food menu and a fully licensed bar.It seems that Nu Metro has found a way to lure people from their home entertainment systems and back into the world of cinema by creating luxury experiences.Before the movie, you can relax in its lounge areas, and in the theatre there are fewer seats, so your comfortable reclining chair is far enough away from the others not to be kicked every few seconds by the person behind you - a big bonus.The screens and cinema are crisp and clean - so no gross smells of stale popcorn, stale air or greasy streaks on the screens. Also, the aircon works.A premium film theatre experience of this calibre comes, understandably, at a premium price: 4DX movie tickets are R175 each. For Scene VIP, it's R95 for 2D movies and R110 for 3D movies. Children and seniors pay R75 for 2D and R90 for 3D. World-class theatre in the comfort of a cinemaNu Metro general manager Nitesh Matai said the company was committed to attracting cinema audiences and that enhancing the cinema offering was the way to do it."The complete Nu Metro Hyde Park renovation cost in the region of R20-million. This included 4DX, the upgrading of all cinemas to Scene VIP status, new interior design, d cor, seating, furniture, catering counters, brand new sound equipment (all cinemas now have Dolby 7.1 sound) as well as cutting-edge projection technology."There is definitely a trend to a more experiential offering at cinemas."The next all-Scene VIP cinema complex will open at the new Nu Metro Parkview in Pretoria East later this month, followed by Nu Metro Bedfordview in Johannesburg."4DX delivers a cinema experience like nothing South Africans have ever seen, heard or felt before - it can't be replicated via any form of home entertainment system."The only thing that has yet to be figured out is a function that automatically dims the cellphone screens of those people who rudely use their devices in the darkened cinema.