What do you do at work each day?I don't have a typical day - and that's the main reason I love my job.I usually have daily content planning meetings in the morning with my team, and thereafter spend some time on research. This involves stalking various news and entertainment websites, reading newspapers and magazines, keeping abreast of trending topics on social media and keeping an eye on TV.The rest of the day is mostly spent attending press conferences, book launches, watching the latest theatre productions or interviewing potential guests. Keeping an eye on the world, and your place in itWhat are your four most important tasks? Content production - the heart and soul of a radio show; Managing on-air talent - the success of the show depends on the research as well as finding interesting ways to assist the host in terms of delivery; Making sure everything runs smoothly during the live show; and Always building and maintaining solid relationships with public relations practitioners and my sources.How did you end up working in the radio industry?The radio bug bit me a long time ago ... I never envisioned it as something I could do as a career ... more of a hobby. So I started doing it as a side gig until I could no longer run away from it.What was your first paying job and what was the most important lesson you learnt?I started working immediately after high school. I managed to secure a job as a sales consultant at Aca Joe at Nelson Mandela Square in Sandton. The most important lesson learnt was the importance of being able to sell.Selling can be applied to various aspects of one's life. I attribute this skill set to where I am today: the ability to sell a concept, an idea, my brand, work and vision (things that are not tangible) is nothing short of impressive.What did you want to be when you were a child?I grew up having a love affair with words (reading books and magazines), and watching talkshows. I was always inquisitive and wanted to be a TV presenter or be on radio. I was always fascinated by the creative arts and entertainment industry.What do you love about your job?The broadcasting industry is important and it allows me to make a meaningful difference in people's lives. I get to inform, educate and entertain. Always asking why as she mines dataYou switched from public relations to radio - why?What drew me to PR was my love of branding and communications. I would say PR reintroduced me to radio. As a PR professional, one interacts with various media operations, including radio.Didn't you also work as a banker?My educational background is in finance. I was signed by one of the big four audit firms to do my articles and become a chartered accountant. It was during vocational work that I realised being a CA was not for me. I worked in investment banking and thoroughly enjoyed it, but wanted to explore my creative side.What are the biggest issues facing the broadcasting industry? The recycling of talent - it's so easy to simply poach from another broadcaster instead of developing new talent; Remuneration - it's no secret that the entertainment and creative space never pays talent what they deserve; and Digital takeover - anyone who has access to the internet can have a radio show (internet-based radio), channel (YouTube), podcasts and blogs, and this has seen the decline of revenue.