The Volkswagen Tiguan: an SUV that's been around since before I started driving cars for a living. 2007 in fact. It seems a lifetime ago. When I eventually did get behind the wheel of the first-generation Tiguan, sometime in 2009, I was left a man divided.For this machine was the automotive equivalent of an awkward first date. Small turbo engines & SUVs aren't a good combo - except in this caseYou know what I'm talking about . The vibe is right, the venue excellent and the conversation as bottomless as the coffee.Then she turns her head and you notice her one ear is disproportionately larger than the other. Almost mutated. Weird.Or that when the waitron finally lights the table candle, its flame illuminates to reveal a large clump of nostril hair.This is a shocking discovery: one that overshadows that bubbly personality, or those killer legs. So what do you do? Do you accept the invitation for post-dinner "dessert" at her apartment, pray to God that you can ignore these foibles, or do you cast your rod back into the under-stocked fishing hole of Singledom?It was the same with the Tiguan. As nice as it was to drive, could you live with those gawky wheel arches or that terrible overbite for the next five years? Most certainly not.The first-generation Tiguan was a valiant effort, but it was in no way the complete, game-changing package Volkswagen had hoped it would be. The new one is.The new one is quite possibly one of the most attractive vehicles anybody has built in as long as I care to remember.Now I know that styling is supposed to be subjective and all, but in this case I think that's a load of bollocks. Just look at this thing. Tight. Assertive. Exquisitely proportioned. The new Tiguan makes the Range Rover Evoque look like the make-up-bombed girl from Essex she really is. With mood lighting to rival a Dubai hotel, the VW Tiguan has a cabin you look forward to spending time in Behind all that taut sheet metal is an equally pleasing interior. The cabin of the old car stood out, if only for the fact that it had eight circular air vents. The new car stands out because it packs pretty much the same premium punch of its dearer Volkswagen/Audi siblings. Indeed, the new Tiguan I had on test felt like a smaller Touareg or Q7. It even had one of those fancy TFT digital instrument clusters that are in vogue.Topped off with a booming great Dynaudio sound system, Apple CarPlay and adaptive cruise control - not to mention mood lighting to rival a Dubai hotel - this is a cabin you really look forward to spending time in.Sure, most of these are optional extras, but then I doubt anybody will buy a barebones Tiguan out the box. A Polo Vivo 1.4, yes, a medium-sized luxury SUV, no. You will be speccing a few toys.So far, so excellent. What about the drive then?Well, during everyday drudging the new Tiguan revealed itself as the perfect embodiment of the Goldilocks Principle. In other words, it's not too hard, it's not too soft, it's just right.Why the new Toyota Fortuner is like a Krispy Kreme donut The sports suspension system (mandatory if you choose to spec the optional R-Line exterior kit - and you will) can make the ride feel a bit brittle over some surfaces, but for most of the time the Tiguan is a pleasure to pilot.What isn't a pleasure is the six-speed manual gearbox that came bolted to my test car. It felt cheap and notchy with a ridiculously long throw. Avoid at all costs. Get the DSG. If you can afford it, I'm also inclined to suggest getting the diesel engine over the petrol engine. Although the little 1.4 TSI lump isn't a bad motor it just sounds somewhat strained and rough around the edges.Really, though, petrol or diesel, we are starting to split hairs here because the new Tiguan is, regardless of what fuel courses through those steely veins, a seriously good package.The best in its particular class? At this stage of the fickle and ever-changing automotive game I'd have to nod sagely in acknowledgment. Naysayers will point out that you're now paying more for the privilege of ownership and this is true.On average the new Volkswagen Tiguan does cost more than its predecessor. But just like the girl with the symmetrical face and the carefully plucked appendages demands fancier restaurants and far more effort than the low-maintenance girl with the hypnotically curved monobrow, the premium is worth it in the long run.I mean, who wants to wake up with the burden of compromise weighing heavy on their conscience every morning? Certainly not me, brother, certainly not me ... FAST FACTS ABOUT THE VW TIGUAN 1.4 TSI COMFORTLINE R-LINE Engine: 1395cc four-cylinder turbo petrolPower: 110kW from 5000 to 6000rpmTorque: 250Nm from 1500 to 3500rpmTransmission: six-speed manual0-100km/h: 9.2-seconds (claimed)Top speed: 200km/h (claimed)Fuel: 9.2/100km (achieved)CO2: 140g/kmPrice: From R437,000Follow Thomas Falkiner on Twitter: @tomfalkiner111