Mulder took a combined seven wickets on his first-class debut against the Cobras, before grabbing 7/25 for the Highveld Lions in the Dolphins' second innings in Potchefstroom this week.It was in a lost cause, but Mulder's future seems paved with crestfallen batsmen."I went to St Stithians [College] to throw balls to some of the guys in the mix [for selection]," recalled SA Under-19 coach Lawrence Mahatlane."Then Wim Jansen, who runs the cricket there, asked me if this chubby young man could have a bowl in the nets. That's when I met Wiaan Mulder."The following year he made the Gauteng Under-17 side and the SA Under-17 side and he hasn't looked back."Timing of course is everything and Mulder's talent required special attention."SA cricket was struggling with allrounders at the time. There was some focus on him and he did not disappoint."We played a game in Cox's Bazar [Bangladesh] where he went in at three and batted through the innings to get 80 not out in 40 degree heat and showing great temperament," said Mahatlane.Mulder, who has legendary Jacques Kallis and great West Indian Viv Richards as idols, had some doubts initially about his ability. "On the first tour we went to Bangladesh and it was a tough tour and I thought I don't have what it takes."His range became more apparent on his last tour to the subcontinent."He [Mulder] led the attack as captain in Sri Lanka. He brought himself on to make breakthroughs. He averaged 50 with the bat and 15 with the ball," said Mahatlane.Mulder's face lights up as he recalls the tour."That was my third time in the subcontinent so I had a bit of experience. Coach Larry and coach Chris [van Noordwyk] always boosted me and helped."When I got back I got a rookie, or franchise contract. I couldn't believe it."Arriving at nets the first time, he admits "was rough". "Thankfully Kagiso [Rabada] and Hardus [Viljoen] weren't there. I was nervous."For an 18-year-old, his performance at Potchefstroom's Senwes Park was jaw-dropping."The ball did a lot," said the self-effacing teen from the West Rand. "I was lucky, if Hardus didn't bowl at the speed of light from the other end, I wouldn't have picked up those wickets."He now wants to make his mark with the bat."I see myself as a batting allrounder," he said. "Hopefully one day I can bat four and bowl first change as the third seamer."Mahatlane's tea leaves tell him something slightly different. "He'll settle at five or six because of the amount of bowling he's likely to do."Apart from scoring runs, Mulder's attention has to rotate with matric exams. "It's very difficult," he nodded. "I missed so much school because of touring over the last two years. Luckily at Saints the teachers go out of their way to help."Having grown accustomed to disruption, Mulder is taking the uncertainty of starting tertiary education next year in his stride."Ideally I would want to do a BCom at UJ [University of Johannesburg] but with all the trouble going on I'm not sure. I always wanted to study engineering. That's going to be difficult."Maybe I'll take a gap-year and throw everything at cricket."