If it had been anyone other than Tim Burton directing and Jane Goldman writing the script, I would have been pretty nervous. But I so trusted Tim's sensibility that I was able to say, "OK, take the keys and bring the car back in one piece when you're done ..."It was mind-blowing to meet Tim and watch him work. He was like a big kid on a giant, life-sized play set, just having the time of his life. And the amazing people he collaborates with ... Colleen Atwood, the Oscar-winning costume designer, and Bruno Delbonnel, the cinematographer, who has shot some of the most beautiful-looking movies of the last two decades ... To watch these people giving their all to bring my little book to life was indescribable.4DX is the reason to get off your couch & go to the cinemaI've had the experience, on a small scale, of casting actors to play characters I've written, but this was such a different calibre. It was, "Here comes Sam Jackson and Judi Dench and Asa Butterfield ..."Eva Green is a great choice as Miss Peregrine. She seems to be channelling Katharine Hepburn at times - if you crossed Hepburn with a bird! She has an incredible gravitas you wouldn't necessarily expect from someone as young as she is.I knew I wanted to be a writer when I was really young. I was part of a writing group that met at my local library in Englewood. I was 12; everyone else was retired. I was writing horror-fantasy stuff. They were writing memoirs. I grew up loving books like The Chronicles of Narnia - stories about discovering hidden worlds. Miss Peregrine is like the strange love child of Stephen King and Monty Python and CS Lewis.I also grew up loving film and photography. After studying English literature I did film school, but all the time I was writing - partly paying for school with freelance writing jobs, working for blogs and magazines and things. So I was always doing both at once. Even now, in between books, I've been making short documentary and personal essay films.About eight years ago I began collecting old snapshots at flea markets and second-hand stores. I was drawn to strange images, just as I'm drawn to strange stories - and, having just graduated from film school, I was looking for ways to combine stories and images.When I hit upon the idea of using these photographs to illustrate a book, I knew immediately what kind of story I wanted to write: a story about a hidden world. And of course the strange-looking kids in the photographs had to live there.</img>Eva Green as Miss Peregrine. Image: SuppliedEva Green as Miss Peregrine. Image: SuppliedThe outsider character Jake was essentially a young version of me, feeling strange and different in this oppressively normal town in the most un-magical place I could think of, suburban Florida.It would have been the ultimate wish-fulfilment fantasy to discover that I really was different, on like a cellular level, that I was connected to another realm, and then embark on a great adventure to discover that place. So in a way the book was a gift to that younger self.I didn't think traditional "super-powers" were very interesting. I wanted to play with the line between ability and disability, the grey area between them, and to make many of the kids' peculiarities handicaps as much as "super" abilities. In any case, they are all handicapped inasmuch as their peculiarness has made them outcasts.I had a small publisher in Philadelphia. They didn't have a lot of money for advertising and marketing. So when the book debuted on the bestseller list, I was surprised. But it still wasn't a huge smash hit. The book's popularity was a slow, gradual thing that took a couple of years to build organically.It was mostly about word of mouth. The rights were optioned a few months before the book was published, and while that was very exciting, it happens all the time in the book world, and in 95% of cases no film ever gets made - so I tried to be realistic and keep my expectations modest.I didn't know Tim Burton was interested in directing until about six months after the option deal. I've been a serious fan of Tim's movies since I was a kid, and the pairing of book and director seemed so right that I thought surely it can't happen; this is a pipe dream. And then one day they were shooting and I was on set watching it happen.WATCH the trailer for 'Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children': WIN THE BOOK We are giving away 10 copies of Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children by Ransom Riggs.To enter, post a note on Twitter with the hashtag #STBooks and tell us why you want to read the book or see the film. Competition closes at midnight on Friday October 14, 2016. We'll announce the winner on Twitter after a random draw on October 17. Ts &amp; Cs apply. Follow @BooksLiveSA