We've rounded up five houses that have made it to the finals of the SAIA/AfriSam awards.The bi-annual awards for sustainable architecture and innovation are a project of AfriSam and the South African Institute of Architects. What you really need to know before switching to solar powerThe "poster-child" for green living, this Durban North home (pictured above) uses pretty much all the green gadgetry there is on the market. It incorporates rooftop gardens, green walls, evaporative cooling ponds, water harvesting and recycling, and solar energy.The house also boasts an integrated eco-system consisting of beehives, a veggie garden, a worm farm and a natural swimming pool, all of which attract more than 40 species of birds, insects and wildlife to the property.UPDATE: Since this article was first published Gorgeous Green House received a 2015/2016 AfriSam-SAIA Award in the Sustainable Architecture category. READ: The owner of Gorgeous Green House's top 9 eco-friendly design tips The Barn House, a personal home in Centurion, was a passion project by the owner, who acted as architect and contractor. The final product is packed with sustainable concepts such as passive heating and cooling, which make for an exceptionally comfortable and eco-friendly home.While the upfront costs of the green technology used in the home may have been relatively high, they will dramatically reduce the energy used by the building in its lifetime, cut running costs and limit the short- and long-term effect on the Earth's resources.</img> Barn House: Strey Architects. Image: SuppliedBarn House: Strey Architects. Image: Supplied</img> Barn House: Strey Architects. Image: SuppliedBarn House: Strey Architects. Image: Supplied A nod to natural materials, this house in Maun, Botswana, is made of rammed earth, timber and locally harvested reeds, It is completely in harmony with the environment, without compromising on style. It points to sustainable future building technology by reinventing traditional building materials.The house is not connected to either the electricity grid or municipal water and sewerage. The architects transferred their knowledge to a local team of builders, and trained unskilled labourers in rammed earth and other green technologies.UPDATE: Since this article was first published Otto Cottage received a 2015/2016 AfriSam-SAIA Award in the Sustainable Product/Technology category.</img>Otto Cottage: Paul Marais. Image: SuppliedOtto Cottage: Paul Marais. Image: Supplied The POD Idlala is a prefabricated nano-home that celebrates simple living. Despite having less than 20m of floor space, it boasts all the mod-cons a couple could need, and thanks to its modular design, it can be easily upsized. Completely solar-powered, the Pod can be moved around, and its simple, clever design ensures it is affordable, to boot.</img>POD Idladla: Collaborate000. Image: SuppliedPOD Idladla: Collaborate000. Image: Supplied A heritage restoration project saw the return to glory of the 1856 Government House for Unisa Pietermaritzburg. The original materials and aesthetics of the beautiful Edwardian-style house were maintained. Specialised craftsmen from around the country came together to meticulously piece back together this historic building.</img>Government House: Robert JW Brusse Architect. Image: SuppliedGovernment House: Robert JW Brusse Architect. Image: Supplied For details on the AfriSam-SAIA Award for Sustainable Architecture and Innovation, visit Sustainabledesign.co.za