1) CAPE TOWN: FLORAThe Cape Town Flower ShowThe Castle of Good Hope, October 27-30Set to become SA's leading flower show, the event aims to display the brilliant diversity of the Cape's flora, inspire its visitors to value their environment, and provide a platform for the local horticultural industry. Tickets R90-R180 at Computicket. For more info visit capetownflowershow.co.zaPlus: Catch The Rose Show in Greyton. October 29-30. Entrance R10.2) JOBURG: CONCERTJPO and KZNPO in concertLinder Auditorium, Oct 26 &amp; 27Catch the Johannesburg Philharmonic Orchestra performing together with the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra. Under the baton of conductor Justus Frantz, with soloist virtuoso Ukrainian-American pianist Valentina Lisitsa, the programme will include Smetana, Rachmaninov and Tchaikovsky. To book, call 011-484-0446.Josie Borain: SA s first true supermodel has found herself in her fifties3) JOBURG: EXHIBITIONI am Josie BorainHAZARD Gallery, Maboneng, until October 30A solo show by Cape Town-based artist and former supermodel Josie Borain. During her international career she graced the covers of dozens of magazines, TV commercials and advertising campaigns including the most famous of all billboards in Times Square, New York. Visit hzrd.co.za.4) CAPE TOWN: KITE FESTIVALBorn to FlyMuizenberg, October 29-30Celebrate being #BornToFly at the 22nd Cape Town International Kite Festival, in support of Cape Mental Health. Africa's biggest kite festival will feature incredible kites from around the world. Entry is R30 per person and R10 for 12 years and under. This is fresh-air, healthy family fun in support of a good cause. For info, visit capementalhealth.co.za.5) MIDRAND: MUSICBurning Carnival Music FestivalWaterfall Park, Mall of Africa, October 29One-of-a-kind festival fuses music, entertainment, costumes and self-expression in three themed tents, a large central arena, an art tent, at a VIP dinner table , in a fun park, and with a therapeutic sunset letter-burning ceremony, plus plenty of other highlights over the course of the full-day event. Tickets R350-R1,500. Visit burningcarnival.com.