It's a tune that evokes some ancient, visceral muscle memory. It makes me want to run out immediately and harpoon a fish, or machete a coconut. It compels me to lift my lardy derri re off the couch at once and make haste to a surf shop to buy a colourful buff. It induces a strong desire to viciously betray someone for a handful of rice.I am referring to the theme music of reality show Survivor. I bet you could hum along to it without even thinking about it. The Survivor music pulses to our collective heartbeat. It is a melody as old as time.Here's what SABC didn't tell us about their financesSurvivor is also, at this stage, a series as old as time. It is the original grandaddy of reality TV, and its creator Mark Burnett has a lot to answer for. Comedian Jimmy Kimmel made this point recently when hosting the Emmys. "Many have asked, who is to blame for Donald Trump?" Kimmel said, and pointed to Burnett. "I'll tell you who. He's sitting right there."Survivor may have been one of the first reality shows, but here's the weird part: it's also still one of the best. It's as if Burnett got it right first time, and everyone should have just stopped after that. If you don't believe that Survivor could still be watchable after more than 30 seasons, don't take my word for it - ask Hlaudi.Survivor was one of the international shows destined for the chopping block in order to realise Mr Motsoeneng's vision of 90% local content on the state broadcaster. Cue a series of ratings disasters, however, involving a series of unwatchable local lifestyle shows, and suddenly Survivor is back on SABC3's roster as of Monday nights this week.This is still SABC, though, so we're getting a Survivor series filmed in 2013. But let's agree to overlook that, because Survivor: Cagayan has been hailed as one of the very best series of the show. In this series, the opening gimmick is that contestants have been placed into one of three tribes based on brains, beauty or brawn.And thanks to the show, we finally have an answer to an age-old riddle. Based on the evidence of Survivor, it is definitely better to be attractive or strong than to be clever. The Brains tribe are a bunch of gigantic losers. They are bad at literally everything, including puzzle-solving and basic game strategy.On the other hand, at least they know how baby chicks are made. In an early episode, the Beauty team's Alexis expresses extreme confusion on the matter of egg-laying. "So ... eggs just keep on happening?" she asks, wide-eyed. That's right, Alexis. Eggs just keep on happening - much like Survivor.WATCH: Find out more about the contestants on 'Survivor: Cagayan'Survivor