Although intended for the campaign staff, the phrase became the Clinton campaign's slogan and subsequently a part of US political culture.The same phrase can arguably summarise Pravin Gordhan's medium-term budget policy statement.The National Treasury's credible belt-tightening exercise is severely undermined by an economy that has persistently underperformed modest expectations.In the medium-term budget, the Treasury has been forced to revise its economic growth expectations for this year to 0.5%; it had been 0.9%. For context, the 2014 budget expected the economy to grow by 3.5% this year. Battered consumers keep watch on walletsA modest improvement is expected thereafter. Growth is only projected to get back to 2% in 2018, supported by higher rainfall leading to a recovery in agriculture; a more stable electricity supply; improving exports, in particular tourism receipts; and moderating inflation, thereby improving real income.Slower growth has resulted in the weaker-than-expected tax collection during the first half of the fiscal year. There will be spillovers into the outer years of the budgeting period.Revenue collection has been shielded somewhat during the past five years by high tax buoyancy: the relationship between tax collection and economic growth.South Africa's has been high in the sense that tax growth has been higher than nominal GDP growth.But this, too, has capitulated. The combination of lower nominal GDP growth and lower tax buoyancy has led to a downward adjustment in expected revenue collection of R23-billion, R36-billion and R52-billion in the three years to 2019.This has necessitated even more measures to reduce deficits and stabilise government debt: measures that will hurt economic activity even more in the short term.But the costs of not taking the pain are assessed to be a greater risk as they would invite lower credit ratings, outflows, higher interest rates and a further dent to business confidence. The ratings agencies could thus easily downgrade South Africa on weak growth despite evidence of a serious consolidation effort As a result, government proposes an additional R26-billion of expenditure reductions during the next two fiscal years - in addition to a spending reduction of R15-billion for 2016 announced in last year's budget, and a R25-billion reduction for the two outer years announced in the 2016 budget.The statement also proposes additional revenue increases of R13-billion for next year. This is in addition to revenue increases of R48-billion between 2016 and 2018 announced in the 2016 budget.Details of where the additional revenue will come from will be provided in February. The statement suggests the bulk will be from tax initiatives. Ratings: stuck between Gordhan, hard placeIn total, the fiscal consolidation measures announced in the 2016 budget in February and in this week's statement amount to R127-billion during the next three years.This equals 75% of this year's health budget. Still, the budget deficit will decline at a slower rate than budgeted for in February. It is now expected to moderate to 3.4% this year (3.2% previously), declining to 2.5% in 2018-19 (2.4% previously).As a result, government debt is now expected to stabilise two years later (2019-20) and at a higher level of 47.9% than projected in February.The consolidation measures announced provide further evidence of a strong commitment to reduce the budget deficit and stabilise debt.But economic growth that generates tax resources that render a more sustainable fiscal adjustment processis lacking. There is also nothing in the statement that suggests an upward revision to medium-term growth expectations.There is a great deal of rhetoric around growth-enhancing reform initiatives. The problem is these have been pending for some time.The ratings agencies could thus easily downgrade South Africa on weak growth despite evidence of a serious consolidation effort.Nxedlana is FNB chief economist