Sir David Attenborough is like a silverback gorilla, in all the best ways. He's a magnificent alpha male and has stature, at 90 years old.His dominance of wildlife broadcasting across the world for 60 years as the presenter and narrator of the BBC's Planet Earth series is uncontested. It's this, not the silver hair, that sets him apart. Not just a tall story - giraffe shock for boffinsAttenborough doesn't have to pound his chest for attention. His authoritative voice is known to millions and he has inspired an interest in natural history among generations of children.What I didn't know until I interviewed him in London this month is that he's funny. He's sharper than many half his age and his astounding knowledge is cut with genuine warmth and humour.This shouldn't have been a surprise. He is, after all, the man who put offbeat British comedy act Monty Python on TV when he was in charge of BBC2.How does he tap in to what appears from his work to be an endless stream of ideas?"I've only had about three ideas," he says. "One idea was why not make television programmes about animals, and that lasted me quite a long time."His close friend, BBC executive producer Mike Gunton interjects that Attenborough has a vast lexicon and comes up with the right word in a flash when the team is struggling with commentary."Yes, with words. But they are not ideas, and that fast access is less and less. I can hardly remember my own name," Attenborough says, both of them laughing. Flowers, fossils, a carnivorous plant, the goblin spider and a Namibian lizard are among the species named in David Attenborough's honour The only concession Attenborough seems to make for age is that he travels less - however, he has already explored every major habitat on earth."I would have liked to have gone to the central Gobi desert but I won't, partly because I make my living making films about animals and there are hardly any animals there, and partly because it takes too long and I'm too old."And I would like to have been to Tibet before the Chinese invasion."The centre of New Guinea, with its steep mountains and valleys covered by rainforest 30m high, is one of the wildest places left on earth, he says."It is extraordinary and there are birds there I am very interested in - birds of paradise."Attenborough was 70 when he became the first person to film the male courting displays of the birds he first observed in his 30s.When he emerged from the hide, the sound recorder said that he knew Attenborough had captured the display because his heart rate had doubled.The rainforest is one of few places on the globe scarcely touched by man because it is inaccessible to modern modes of transport so Attenborough once took time off to discover for himself the centre of the island."I wanted to feel what exploration was like until about 50, 100 years ago." His dedication to being in nature has led to an unusual career path. As controller of BBC2 and director of programmes, he was on track for a powerful position in the BBC when he decided to go back into the field to film wildlife, a passion that continues to sustain him.To pay tribute to Sir David (knighted in 1985) on his 90th birthday, the BBC made a documentary, which includes a clip of a tender interaction with a blind baby rhino while he is on his knees. In another scene animated gorillas talk about the naturalist and a film clip from 1979 shows his reaction when real baby gorillas unexpectedly start to play with him.His smile when one touches his face is radiant. Attenborough, a natural sciences graduate from the University of Cambridge, sees himself however as an observer who films wildlife rather than a person who encounters animals.In 1954 he started the programme Zoo Quest for the BBC after joining the corporation from the Royal Navy. He shot to fame for writing and presenting natural history programmes like his pioneering Life On Earth (1979), The Living Planet, The Blue Planet and Planet Earth.Attenborough has earned countless accolades - from honorary degrees, prizes and medals to British Academy of Film and Television Arts awards.Flowers, fossils, a carnivorous plant, the goblin spider and a Namibian lizard are among the species named in his honour.Humans eating wild mammals into extinction: studyEven though film is his medium, Attenborough loves to read and he describes the book he's currently immersed in, Meetings with Remarkable Manuscripts, as riveting.Attenborough comes from a family given to intellectual excellence. His father was the principal of the University College Leicester when David was young and out searching for fossils, and his older brother (of two), Richard, is a renowned producer, director and actor.Attenborough and his wife, Jane, who passed away in 1997, have two children of their own.Asked to name his favourite animal, he says: "If there's one thing that makes me eternally fascinated and is inclined to bring me to tears, it's a human child at the age of about three-and-a-half."That's the most remarkable organism on earth: the speed at which it develops, the skills it develops, the way it can manipulate you, it's the most marvellous animal in the world."Like a silverback, he protects the vulnerable. And in Sir David Attenborough the wild creatures of this planet have a powerful voice and champion, who has contributed like no other to the preservation of habitats and species under threat. BBC 'Planet Earth II' will be coming to BBC Earth in early 2017.