They were sitting upright, listening intently to Gordhan and pretended they were not aware their leader was about to keel over. Pretence is the operative word in the ANC.Not even Jackson Mthembu, who raised his head above the parapet recently and was sitting behind Zuma, could summon the courage to tap the leader on the back. Where was EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi when we needed him?As Gordhan manfully tried to convince the world we have the will to extricate ourselves from the hole Zuma has dug us into, the president was in dreamland.WATCH: Zuma falls asleep during Gordhan's mid-term budget speechThat pretty much sums up our problems. Zuma has been allowed to go on the rampage, unchallenged and undisturbed by those close to him, at great cost to the country.The extent of his looting is so vast, so blatant and so shameless it's hard to wrap one's mind around it. Its audacity defies comprehension. An enemy of the state could not have done a better job.The public protector's report on state capture, which Zuma has gone to court - at taxpayer expense, remember - to suppress, is a can of worms. His family and his friends the Guptas are making a mint from the state. People are offered vast sums of money to be amenable lackeys in Zuma's cabinet.Thugs looking for evidence to nail Gordhan corner and kidnap a civil servant at the South African Revenue Service, of all places. Outlaws are in charge of the law. Armed with instruments of power, gangsters are running amok. It is staggering how far SARS, a fine institution not so long ago, has fallen under Tom Moyane.It may be hard for patriotic South Africans to take, or understand, but the Guptas essentially run the country for their own benefit, and Zuma is in their pocket. The ANC, the so-called glorious movement with a stellar history of struggle, has been reduced to a supporting act, a rabble without a cause.In parliament Zuma got bored and took a nap because he had little interest in what Gordhan was saying. He just wants the man out of the way, preferably in jail. The seasoned veteran leading Gordhan fraud prosecutionGordhan has had the nerve to stand up to the Guptas and that cannot be allowed. Zuma smiles and exchanges pleasantries with him in public while plunging the dagger in his back. Pretence.As Zuma works against the national interest, those close to him either egg him on or pretend not to be aware of what he's doing.It's becoming a bit tedious to blame everything on Polokwane. It's not Zuma's election per se that was a problem. That was a democratic process and Zuma beat Thabo Mbeki fair and square.But the extent to which the destruction of the Scorpions, following the ANC resolution in Polokwane, has helped to fan the scourge of corruption, cannot be overemphasised. The Scorpions were dismantled for nothing else but the fact that they were too successful and fearless.They had the temerity to take on Zuma and they had to go. The whole criminal justice system was thus gutted and the looters are having a whale of a time.Zuma takes care of his sycophants. Menzi Simelane, who, as justice department director-general, was instrumental in the creation of the bill which ultimately killed the Scorpions, was appointed head of the National Prosecuting Authority as his reward, an appointment later deemed invalid by the Constitutional Court.Shaun Abrahams seems to be following the script left by Simelane . Regardless of what Abrahams says, the NPA sits at the nexus of the whole Zuma debauchery. It enables corruption, instead of fighting it.Taking Gordhan to court on a flimsy charge is the height of irresponsibility which could prove Abrahams's downfall and that of Zuma, his putative boss. Who is it that traps us on this treadmill of dreadful news?Abrahams denied Zuma had been consulted before the decision was taken. Now it turns out he had been in a meeting at ANC headquarters with Zuma and Justice Minister Michael Masutha a day before he announced the charges.It simply beggars belief. And for him to say Gordhan was never discussed at the meeting is to take us for morons. It's clear Gordhan was the reason for the meeting, which was held at Luthuli House to avoid detection or suspicion.And in their eagerness to net their big fish, Abrahams and his toadies seem to have done a sloppy job in their investigation.Now they're pleading with Gordhan to come and make representations to them, presumably to get them out of the mess they have got themselves into.It's a farce, and it would be hilarious if the country's future didn't hang on it.Zuma can afford a siesta. He's got his flunkies doing the dirty work.