March 24 2015 will go down as one of the most annoying dates in history, when South Africa faced New Zealand for a place in the Cricket World Cup final.The game at Eden Park in Auckland meant those of us sadistic enough to support the Proteas in an ICC tournament had to be up before sunrise.Yawning through the predawn grog and wired-up on cheap caffeine, I turned on my TV expecting the signal to be crisp. I had spent a small chunk of change having the connection to the roof antenna fixed. Our motoring man tries to keep up with the new Renault Kadjar I was met by a snowy replay of Trent Boult taking the wickets of Amla and De Kock. By the time I got a semi-watchable picture, fashioning a bunny-ears from a coat hanger, it was time to leave for work.And it was here, behind the wheel of the Nissan Juke 1.2 DIG-T that my irritation levels shot up. Not because its radio was telling me that rain was bucketing down on Eden Park, no, but because of the engine/gearbox combination.You see, the motor industry is obsessed with small turbo engines because they produce less CO2 and, on paper at least, promise good fuel consumption figures.On the open road this may be true; around town not so much.I digress. In a feathery hatchback these motors make sense. In the Juke it didn't.Not with the extra weight and not with that stupid manual gearbox. Normally I like a manual . In this car I hated it. When I launched from a standstill I found myself stalling or riding the clutch.Get stuck in traffic and you'll soon be hating life. Get stuck in traffic listening to the Proteas facing another Duckworth-Lewis and you will feel like ending it.Which I nearly did on the drive home later that day when, still reeling from seeing Dale Steyn smashed for a match-winning six off the second-last ball, the lurching Juke made me near homicidal.After stalling again I vowed never to drive another small-engined-manual-transmission SUV/crossover. Nor recommend one. The concept was completely and utterly flawed.Why the new Toyota Fortuner is like a Krispy Kreme donut Here's where things get interesting though. The other day a Renault Kadjar arrived at our offices - a bit odd because I had tested one a few weeks prior. But I needed to run errands so I wasn't complaining.Especially since the Kadjar is, despite its iffy multimedia system, a surprisingly good vehicle. Nice to drive. Luxuriously appointed. Space for days. Dapper styling.Renault has once again proved that when they put their mind to it they can make a decent automobile. With this car they have also proved to naysayers like me that the dreaded small-turbo-engine-in-an-SUV syndrome can actually work.Indeed, it gets the same 1.2-litre engine as the Juke with just a few extra kilowatts. What's the big deal? Well here it's been partnered with Renault's efficient dual clutch (EDC) automatic transmission and it works a treat. It suits the engine's characteristics and irons out the driveline jerk you would otherwise experience - especially in urban traffic.You won't come anywhere near the claimed combined fuel consumption figures but you will at least enjoy your time behind the wheel.Even more so considering that this petrol-powered Kadjar is R55,000 less expensive than the range-topping diesel model we drove a few weeks ago. So there you have it. Humble pie eaten and faith restored.Now if only Renault could do something to reinstall my belief in the Proteas. FAST FACTS: RENAULT KADJAR 1.2 TURBO EDC Engine: 1,197cc four-cylinder turboPower: 96kW at 5,500rpmTorque: 205Nm at 2,000rpmTransmission: six-speed EDC0-100km/h: 12-seconds (claimed)Top speed: 179km/h (claimed)Fuel: 10.2l/100km (achieved)CO2: 124g/km (claimed)Price: From R399,900