Meet Steven Heyman. Yoga teacher and founder of Yoga Works, a company that runs corporate yoga workshops and public events in stunning locations around Joburg, from parks to inner-city rooftops.A former managing director at a big firm, Heyman saw the need for yoga in the corporate environment. His seven-week corporate workshops are centred on a key practice of yoga known as mindfulness the ability to stay present, whether it be trying to balance on your head in a yoga class or balance work and life.The benefits of yoga/ mindfulness for nine-to-fivers, Heyman says, are numerous, from increased vitality, a calmer and sharper mind, reduced tension in the body from sitting at our laptops all day.He believes it even boosts our EQ (emotional intelligence), making us better equipped to deal with things like a difficult colleague and deadlines.Try these six quick and simple office yoga stretches to combat the side-effects of sitting for long periods of the day things like computer hunch . You can do them at your desk so you can incorporate them into your day. This is a simple breathing technique that helps to restore balance both in the breath and mind, says Heyman. It is also great in a stressful moment, or at the start of your mindfulness practice. This short sequence focuses on the sides and back of the neck. These simple stretches will make you feel like a new person after a long day at work or behind the steering wheel. 3 tips to avoid office injuries of the deskbound The shoulder area is one of the most common places where we hold tension in the body, says Heyman. This five-minute sequence is designed to move and stretch all the muscles around the shoulders. If repeated regularly, it will make a world of difference in improving tension and posture. When we sit for long periods during the day our spine is often in the same position and not always the optimal position for our spinal health). This short sequence explores the three main movements of the spine (hollow/round, side bend and twist), Heyman says, and will help you combat computer hunch . We use our hands and wrists a lot in repetitive movements like typing, texting or driving, says Heyman, who advises using these simple exercises to both strengthen and stretch the hands and wrists. Ideal as a little breakaway from your computer.This short yoga sequence is accessible to everyone and focuses on getting those lazy legs moving. It s a great way to start your morning, or after a long day at the office, Heyman says. It s also recommended for runners and cyclists, to stretch out your muscles after a workout. For more on Steven Heyman and Mindful Revolution read here.