It is however SA Rugby's view that the Springbok team at the next Rugby World Cup will be less reliant on thirtysomethings than was the case in 2011 and last year."We are paying the price now for not bringing young players through before. We want a youthful team with experience at the 2019 World Cup," said SA Rugby president Mark Alexander.That surely means that Allister Coetzee now has to rely more on younger players and give them the necessary experience over the next four years. General Franco: Perspiration over inspirationIt is the route Jake White followed en route to World Cup success in 2007.Alexander believes SA Rugby should not be too prescriptive in how the national team is assembled, although that may raise a few eyebrows."Allister uses foreign-based players as and when he needs them. If the player is local and good enough he will be the coach's preferred choice. We don't want to put limitations on the coach. This is a fluid situation," said Alexander.That it certainly is. Coetzee has to juggle two sets of players who campaign abroad. He has to incorporate players who play all their club rugby north of the equator and those who play Super Rugby but play abroad (mostly Japan) while the Currie Cup is contested.It means even the less established Springboks are getting game time outside of the country.Apart from being disruptive to the coach's preparations, local competitions suffer as a result of a shallower talent pool.New Zealand, the game's undisputed pacesetters, also lose players to the northern hemisphere but their national coach Steve Hansen confines his selection to those who play in Super Rugby.Australia have a hybrid model, now dubbed the Giteau Law (after Matt Giteau), in which foreign-based players with 60 caps or more and with more than seven years' test experience can be roped into the Wallaby set-up if required by Michael Cheika.If at the start of his tenure Coetzee was given the assurance that he can build a team that will be competitive next year and beyond, then the Springboks' results this year might have been slightly more palatable. We have to deliver a team that can be competitive and win - our priority is youth, but we are under pressure when we lose four flyhalves The coach, however, has this year flown in established Springboks Duane Vermeulen, Willem Alberts, Bryan Habana, JP Pietersen, Francois Louw and Morne Steyn from Europe as he tried to survive from one test to the next."He feels he has his back against the wall," Alexander conceded. "We have fielded youthful teams with one or two older guys. We are on the right track. It is true that in the past we had an over-reliance on experienced players."Forget about the cost of getting them out to test matches. We have to deliver a team that can be competitive and win. Yes, our priority is youth, but we are under pressure when we lose four flyhalves. Then you have to fetch someone from overseas."When you lose a tighthead prop you don't throw a youngster into the deep end and then he gets injured."Allister is realistic. You give him a contract but you must allow him to deliver."Coetzee referred all inquiries to SA rugby.