From the time children enter their teenage years, they become increasingly indecipherable. Here's an example of the kind of conversation I might have with my son on the way home from school."How was your day?""Frank Ocean legit snaked us Mom, he didn't drop his album today, but apart from that it was cool because Sam and I have held the school Pokegym for 24 hours. Legends! Thanks to the Pufflesnort, the one I caught on Tuesday, remember, at Zoo Lake ...""Well that's great, I guess ...""Yeah. And the transfer window is nearly over so if we don't do something about our back four pretty quickly, we're going to be like the Blues of last year, the Blues that broke our hearts, Mom.""Wow, I hope not. What are your plans for tonight?""Just gonna mize, maybe watch S3E4. Apparently it's lit."Quiz: How fluent are you in social media speak?This is a distinctly unilluminating conversation, unless you live with teenagers and are versed in their various interests and dialects. In which case, the information you will have gleaned from the above is the following: Frank Ocean (who is a singer) did not release his album today, despite having said that he would. This child enjoyed success in the field of Pokemon GO. Chelsea Football Club would be well advised to purchase additional players to bolster their defence. A relaxing night is planned, perhaps including Episode 4 of Season 3 of Game of Thrones, which is reputed to be excellent.I make an effort to keep up with the lingo and with the subjects that interest my offspring. Nonetheless, I have failed, among other perhaps even more egregious failures, to watch Game of Thrones.By the time enough like-minded people had gone over to the dark side, and it seemed I might enjoy it, despite its obvious drawbacks - you know, dress-up, swords, big beards, giant cast of people with funny names to remember - it just seemed too late.Having briefly investigated the Pokemon GO phenomenon on day two of its existence, for the purposes of writing an article, I soon lost interest in it. Also, see above re giant cast of people with funny names to remember.The high point of my football interest was in 2010. Once you've had the World Cup delivered to your very own doorstep, and seen Annie Leibovitz's Vanity Fair pic of Didier Drogba in his undies, you've pretty much wrung all the joy there is to wring from the game, and you may as well quit while you're ahead. Also, see above re giant cast of people with funny names to remember. The transfer period is particularly taxing in this regard.These three topics are trending big in our family. (Out of kindness to my readers, I have omitted the fourth extremely popular topic - rap and rappers. See above re giant cast of people with funny names to remember.) Sadly, much of the conversation at home is entirely meaningless to me.Take this fun quiz below to see whether you could keep up with teen talk. 