One third of all food produced in South Africa is dumped in landfill, while more than 14 million people are hungry. FoodForward SA (known formally as FoodBank SA) connects a world of excess to a world of need. Our vision is a South Africa without hunger. We have branches in Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban, Port Elizabeth and Free State, and Virtual Foodbanks in Polokwane and PietermaritzburgIn partnership with major food retailers, wholesalers, and manufacturers, we collect surplus food and non-food products for redistribution to registered and verified beneficiary organisations in disadvantaged communities across South Africa. Member beneficiary organisations are linked to the closest participating store for daily collection of food products.We support emerging farmers; offer a nutritious and delicious easy-to-prepare meal; and implement large-scale feeding programmes on behalf of donors. Everyday hero brings dignity to schoolgirls with sanitary pad driveFoodForward SA facilitates the provision of meals to 175,000 people daily. This has a direct impact on hunger in the country. Indirectly our reach goes much further: Breakfast at school allows children to develop physically and mentally, improving their participation at school; A daily meal enables those who are sick to take their medication, particularly those suffering from HIV and TB; FoodForward SA rescues 3,350 tons of food every month that would otherwise end up in landfills, producing methane gas and contributing to global warming; and The provision of food to community-based organisations such as homeless shelters, rehab centres and child-care facilities allows them to focus on the important work that they do.World Food Day on October 16 is a day of action against hunger where people around the world come together to declare their commitment to those in need. FoodForward SA, in partnership with Checkers, will be holding a food drive at Blue Route shopping mall in Cape Town and at the Mall of Africa in Johannesburg today. The food collected will be distributed to orphanages, old age homes, homes for the disabled, shelters for abused women and children and youth development centres.We are also challenging companies and schools to get involved by holding their own food drives.The most needed items include rice, maize meal, samp, cereal, pasta, dried beans, lentils, tinned fish, soya mince, milk powder, jam, peanut butter, canned mixed vegetables, cooking oil, salt and sugar.You can also make a monetary donation online at Foodforwardsa.org: Every R1 donated translates to R23.47 in food value (since all the food received by FoodForward SA is donated, the actual costs are operational, facilitating the provision of food to beneficiary organisations). The total annual value of the products distributed is more than R86-million a year. A donation of R400 will allow FoodForward SA to feed one person for a whole year; R35 will feed a person for a month.TWEET AND HELP SOMEONE EAT ON WORLD FOOD DAYTo mark World Food Day, Knorr is partnering with the United Nations World Food Programme and FoodForwardSA in a drive called #ShareAMealSA. Knorr South Africa will donate a meal to a hungry person for every post tagged #ShareAMealSA on the Knorr What's For Dinner Facebook page or twitter on October 16, 2016. Get typing now.