"Like, dude, you seriously don't know who Bob Dylan is?""Give me the f****** album sleeve so I can read his story, man!"I snatch the sleeve from Clifford. The room is thick with the rancid smell of sweat, unwashed takkies, dagga, incense, alcohol, vomit, sex, impatient hormones and political anxiety.I flop onto a bean bag and begin reading notes, but the music grabs me by the throat:"How many roads must a man walk downBefore you call him a man?How many seas must a white dove sailBefore she sleeps in the sand?Yes, and how many times must the cannon balls flyBefore they're forever banned?The answer, my friend, is blowin' in the windThe answer is blowin' in the wind ..." Still no word from Dylan on his Nobel prizeAlmost unable to breathe, I close my eyes. This Bob Dylan fellow is telling my story, teasing the scabs so my wounds are exposed once again - throbbing with pain.I look around: can these people hear what the man is saying? Or is this, to them, just a song, something to get high on?This is 1986, and I'm at a commune on Moore Road, Durban, where I have moved in with a couple of white friends, classmates I met at Technikon Natal the year before. In six months, I have been kicked out of three apartment buildings - for being black.Let's claw back to the past, so you understand the context. Although the Group Areas Act was still in force, some black people, like me, used white friends as fronts. They would sign the lease, et cetera, so we could get accommodation in white areas. But as soon as the landlord or the neighbours wised up to the presence of a black person in the flat, you were kicked out.Why subject ourselves to such humiliation ? In 1985, at the height of the political violence and the state of emergency, I had been attacked in my township of Hammarsdale, Mpumalanga, and beaten within an inch of my life by Inkatha thugs.The special branch was hounding down people like me. So I had to run. To flee from the System you went to white suburbia or the city centre and hid, almost literally under the System's big nose, in the thicket of its moustache.WATCH Bob Dylan singing Blowin in The Wind (1963): So we're back at the party, and Blowin' In The Wind is coming to an end. The next song, The Times They Are a-Changin, comes on:"Come mothers and fathers throughout the landAnd don't criticise what you can't understandYour sons and your daughters are beyond your commandYour old road is rapidly agin'Please get out of the new one if you can't lend your handFor the times they are a' changin'!"When the songs ends, I play it again, and again, and again.Until there's a near-riot outside, the white people shouting: "Whatthef***whatthef***!"I step onto the porch and join them.Somebody says, "It's him that's been playing Dylan over and over again. He's just discovered Dylan."Guffaws of laughter. "HedoesnotknowDylan-hedoesnotknowDylanHahahaha."</img>U.S. singer/songwriter Bob Dylan performs at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in New Orleans. (File photo.) Image: Lee Celano / Reuters U.S. singer/songwriter Bob Dylan performs at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in New Orleans. (File photo.) Image: Lee Celano / ReutersFirst, embarrassment. Then, rage. I don't like being laughed at. Least of all by people I don't even know. I am still uncomfortable around white people, having spent my life in the township - only coming to white people's homes to clean their gardens.I am angry that they are laughing at my ignorance.Ignorance and stupidity are travelling mates; the one usually gets confused with the other.I storm to my bedroom. My mind is screaming: I'll show these white people what I'm made of. I've got my weapons that will shut them up.I get to my bedroom, fetch my weapon. I proceed to the corner where Clifford's music system is located. I put my weapon to use.Suddenly the night is thick with a squealing organ, a throaty brass section and a warlike bass.I rush to join them on the porch. "Whatthef***isthat!" they are saying in awe and admiration.It's my turn to laugh: "Hahaha, you people do not know the Soul Brothers! Hahaha!So I jive for them. The black minstrel jiving in front of the white strangers. Later I tell them that the Soul Brothers are the biggest South African band that ever lived - in terms of record sales and the ability to fill stadiums.They are aghast, especially because the undertone is: they must be racist to ignore a local band simply because it's black, and admire a foreign hippie, simply because he's white.That night will remain in the minds of those at the party. Friendships born that night will endure.WATCH Bob Dylan perform The Times They Are a-Changin at the White House: I then began to spend time in the library, reading about Dylan.I am thankful my first encounter happened before Google. Had I come across Dylan now, I would have googled him and after a few minutes switched off my device in the belief that I knew who he was. And forgotten him.Because I'd invested so much time reading about him, I was not about to forget him.I bought his music, immersed myself in his soul-drenched lyrics. Having been raised on reggae and the revolutionary poems of Linton Kwesi Johnson and The Last Poets, I hadn't realised there was a parallel universe - a white man singing my pain.Dylan breathed new life into everyday speech, and used his artistry to teach. His peers foisted on him a leadership mantle, which he rejected because he thought leaders were mental.Mind you, it's not his vocal prowess that made him the epitome of counterculture; the brother could crow like a starving, wounded vulture. But, oh, his lines shimmered with lyrical splendour because he wrote and edited himself into a stupor.He fashioned bullets from everyday words and slayed sacred cows with verbal swords. Dissecting Dylan: Come writers and critics ...In my readings I discovered that Bob Dylan was not even his name. He was born Robert Zimmerman who in his teens was inspired by Dylan Thomas. That got me reading Dylan Thomas.SABC radio had made sure that I did not know what white people listened to, or what we blacks were exposed to.I doubt if SABC would have played Dylan. But you never knew about the SABC.Around 1982 or 1983, while I was at high school, my friends and I were shocked to hear Bob Marley on Radio Zulu.Okay, they were playing Lively Up Yourself, which is perhaps a "safe" song. But to hear our hero on the System's airwaves shocked us. We assumed Marley was banned and only accessible to those of us who frequented some dodgy record bars on Ajmeri Arcade in Durban.Back to the other Bob.He has become the first musician-songwriter to have the Nobel Prize for literature bestowed on him.Expectedly, it sparked a huge debate. Many thought extending literature to this level would set a bad precedent.It's not a debate I want to enter. Dylan's music is close to my heart. As a literary man, however, I am ambivalent.Before you dismiss me as a snob who thinks Nobel equals Novel, I am aware the Nobel has in the past been given to playwrights, essayists and poets.As I have shown, he is indeed a poet. Lyrics do not generally outlive the music. But in the world of Dylan, who at 75 has been recording for more than 50 years and sold more than 100 million records, his lyrics have endured.However, one still has to wonder if Dylan would have achieved the acclaim had he stuck to writing poetry and not used his fame as a musician to insinuate himself in the minds of the Nobel committee. There's a fine line between populism and recognition that pop culture can aspire to, and achieve, high art.But I want to end by reminding myself how Dylan changed my life.Time to say goodbye. Isis is screaming for my attention."I married Isis on the fifth day of May ... Isis, oh, Isis, you mystical child/ what drives me to you is what drives me insane/ I still remember the way that you smiled/ On the fifth day of May in the drizzlin' rain." Fred Khumalo's new book '#ZuptasMustFall and Other Rants' (Penguin Random House, R220) is available at bookstores.