These days, there s a diverse choice of neighbourhood restaurants offering everything from schwarmas and seafood, to fresh tacos and flame-grilled steak.If you re looking for the perfect weekend lunch spot, here are our picks of Norwood s best: Baha Taco What started out as a food truck frequenting Joburg festivals and events has now evolved to a restaurant with fixed premises on Grant Avenue. Baha Taco's cuisine is still as good as ever, and its signature dish remains the soft-shell corn tacos served with pulled pork, chilli beef, chicken breast or halloumi, veg and beans. There are also wood-roasted nachos and cheesy quesadillas along with a range of changing specials and don t miss the churros with chocolate sauce for dessert. Where to find awesome Mexican food in JoburgThe Usual on GrantPreviously occupied by Europa, The Usual opened its doors in 2015 as an owner-run local gem that s the antithesis of its franchised predecessor. It s as popular for its hearty breakfasts as it is for lunch, with a menu offering everything from wraps, sandwiches and salads to burgers, pastas and hearty dishes like chicken, mushroom and leek pie, steak rolls, and battered hake and chips. Call 011-483-0799.The Schwarma CompanyThe simple pita has never tasted so good with fillings including traditional beef, lamb and chicken as well as veggie options like salad, falafel and halloumi. The Middle Eastern menu also features burgers, salads and chef specialities like shakshuka (oven-baked tomato-based salsa), steaks, line fish and lamb shank. Unpretentious and well-priced, it s no wonder The Schwarma Company is bustling with loyal regulars. When the weather s good, sit on the upstairs outside deck for a festive afternoon. Where to find awesome Mexican food in JoburgFireside Bistro and GrillBuilt around an open wood fire that forms the restaurant s centrepiece, the cozy Fireside Bistro and Grill offers an upmarket braai experience in a restaurant setting. Choose from the huge meat selection including steaks, chicken, seafood, boerewors, burgers and more all cooked on an open flame, and don t miss the lamb on a spit every Sunday at lunchtime. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.