Aaron Biebert is an angry dude. We're at Rosebank Exclusive Books and he's banging on the table with his fist, launching cutlery and sugar packets all over the place."Look at Swedish snus - a smokeless product," he's saying. (Snus - rhymes with "loose" - is a smokeless, moist powder tobacco pouch you place under your top lip.) "Sweden has a much lower cancer rate than the rest of Europe but the rest of Europe banned snus.Fear mongering, OK? And guess what, here's another smokeless alternative and what do they do? Same stuff. It's the same playbook every 20 years" - here's where he pounds the table - "and it's gotta stop." New vaping spots pop up in South Africa as the trend grows Biebert is the US director of the documentary A Billion Lives, which looks into efforts to ban e-cigarettes. The documentary is so named because the World Health Organisation has projected that a billion people will die from cigarettes this century.The e-cigarette was invented by Chinese pharmacist Hon Lik and patented in 2003. It didn't really take off at first because you had to plug the device in, which was cumbersome and also made you look a bit silly. But since battery technology made the device fully portable, vaping has become kinda cool and fashionable.This presents tobacco companies with a problem - a nicotine delivery system that is not only healthier than a cigarette, but far cheaper too. Other organisations are also concerned about what vaping might do to them."Funding is the main thing," Biebert says. "You have governments who make more money from cigarettes than anyone. Do you think they have an incentive to help people quit? Pharmaceutical companies as well, the ones who make the meds and the patches and gum."Biebert is accompanied by South African physician Delon Human, a former president of the World Medical Association, who was instrumental in the formation of South Africa's smoking laws. His father, a lifelong smoker, died from larynx cancer.Human says: "The analogy is you're in a building that's on fire and people block the exit by saying, 'But we don't know whether it's safer outside, we must do some more research.' The place is on fire! The exit is there and e-cigarettes to me are the best possible exit."Human notes that both the UK's Royal College of Physicians and Department of Health believe e-cigarettes are less harmful than cigarettes. He's also quick to point out the misnomer that nicotine is itself a carcinogen.Doctors should prescribe e-cigarettes to smokersWhat's carcinogenic about cigarettes is the smoke you're inhaling from the blazing tobacco; what you're inhaling from an e-cigarette is atomised nicotine, which is far less harmful.Biebert was never a smoker, nor is he a vaper. The reason he made this documentary is because he's angry (oh so angry) about being lied to."I know a lot of smokers who won't try vaping because they think it might be worse for them; that makes no sense! But that's how good the propaganda is. I've met thousands of people who have quit because of vaping. This isn't something to be demonised."It's easy to think that Biebert might be fighting a lost cause, what with all that government money and power behind the tobacco industry. But Biebert has hope - after the film's recent screening in New Zealand, where vaping is banned, the New Zealand government began taking steps to relax the regulations and has publicly recognised that banning vaping actually punishes people who are trying to give up cigarettes."At the beginning of the HIV crisis in South Africa we had the same bullshit," Human says. "People were not being told what the risk reduction could be and they were denied treatment. And that's where smokers are - they're not being given the truth in terms of risk communication." 'A Billion Lives' will be released online towards the end of the month.