Makes: 1 large plaited loafTumeric bread dough:300g brown bread flour300g white bread flour12g salt12g instant yeast10ml (2 tsp) ground turmeric10ml (2 tsp) red chilli, deseeded and chopped50g melted ghee/butter400ml tepid waterHow to make the ultimate garam masalaGaram masala bread dough:600g white bread flour12g salt12g instant yeast15-20ml (3-4 tsp) garam masala20ml (4 tsp) garlic flakes20ml (4 tsp) cumin seeds20ml (4 tsp) onion seeds50g melted ghee/butter400ml tepid waterOther ingredients:125ml ( cup) vegetable oil, to oil bowls and cooking surfaces 2 extra large eggs, beaten, to glaze the bread60ml ( cup) sesame seeds, to decorate the load60ml ( cup) poppy seeds, to decorateCucumber dip:1 cucumber (seeded)Salt125ml ( cup) plain thick yoghurt125ml ( cup) mint leaves, finely chopped125ml ( cup) coriander leaves, finely chopped2,5ml ( tsp) garam masalaPepper</img>A mix of two doughs - white garam masala and vibrant yellow turmeric - gives this spicy plaited bread its striking appearance. Image: BBC LifestyleA mix of two doughs - white garam masala and vibrant yellow turmeric - gives this spicy plaited bread its striking appearance. Image: BBC LifestyleMethod:1) To make the turmeric dough, place the flour, salt, yeast, turmeric and chilli in a large mixing bowl. (Put the salt and yeast on opposite sides of the bowl.) Add the ghee or butter and 300ml water and mix well. Add the remaining 100ml water a little at a time, until the dry ingredients are mixed in. The dough must be soft, not soggy. 2) Tip the turmeric dough onto an oiled surface and knead for 4-5 minutes until it feels smooth and silky. Place in an oiled bowl, cover with cling film and leave to rise until it's doubled in size; this takes about an hour.3) To make the garam masala dough, place the flour, salt, yeast, garam masala, garlic flakes, cumin and onion seeds in a large mixing bowl. (Put the salt and yeast on opposite sides of the bowl.) Add the ghee or butter and 300ml water and mix well. Add the remaining 100ml water a little at a time, until the dry ingredients are mixed in. The dough must be soft, not soggy. 4) Tip the garam masala dough onto an oiled surface and knead for 4-5 minutes until it feels smooth and silky. Place in an oiled bowl, cover with cling film and leave to rise until it's doubled in size; this takes about an hour.5) Once the tumeric dough has doubled in size, knock it back and fold it into a sausage shape. Cut the dough in two and roll into 2 long 'sausages'. Do the same with the garam masala dough. Plait the dough 'sausages' together using a four-strand plaiting technique.6) Place the plaited bread in a large plastic bag and allow to rise for about an hour. The dough is ready when it springs back when touched.7) In the meantime, preheat the oven to 230 C. Line a large flat baking tray with baking paper8) Place a roasting tray in the bottom of the oven and pour in 500ml of boiling water.9) Remove the plaited bread from the plastic bag and place on the prepared tray. Brush with the beaten eggs and sprinkle with the sesame and poppy seeds.10) Bake, in the middle of the oven, for 30-35 minutes or until the bread is golden brown and sounds hollow when you tap the base. Cool on a wire rack.11) To make the cucumber dip, grate the cucumber, place it in a sieve, sprinkle with salt and leave to drain for 15 minutes to remove excess moisture. Rinse well and wring dry in a clean dishcloth. Mix the cucumber, herbs and garam masala with the yoghurt and season to taste. Serve with the bread.