Now that the warmer weather is here, there's no better time to focus on your outdoor area. Whether you're looking to simply update your braai area or renovate your swimming pool - or knock it all down and start from scratch - here are some tips and tricks to help you nail some of the most popular current outdoor trends.Kick back and relax with friends and family around a good old braai. Fire pits and braai areas are one hot trend at the moment, and rightly so! It's the perfect place to get together where great food and conversation are shared. Once you've decided what the area will look like, you'll need to move on to picking the right tiles.Sandstone and slate tiles are your best bet, as they are great in wet conditions, and the uneven surface provides extra slip resistance. Other tiles that are hard-wearing enough to survive the outdoors include terra cotta and quarry tiles.It's absolutely fantastic to sink into a cold swimming pool on a hot summer's day, or put your feet up with the sound of a water feature running in the background. A swimming pool is not just something to help you relax in the heat of the day, it also has the ability to transform your outdoor aesthetic.If you'd like to add a pool or water feature to your outdoor area, remember that this is a job for professionals. Outsourcing the job doesn't mean you have no control over the project, it simply means you can choose the things that matter, like the tiles and other finishes.If you entertain on a regular basis, an outdoor kitchen-cum-bar area will be right up your alley. Bringing these functional areas outdoors will give you, the host, the ability to entertain with ease (without having to run inside to check on the food). These areas don't need to be as extensive as your indoor areas; they just need to have the basics.Make sure these areas can be locked up or ensure that the tiles can withstand the rain. Porcelain tiles would be great as they are resilient and come in a range of finishes, like natural wood and stone.Always wanted to have a garden to escape to but have very little space? Not to worry, there are ways around limited garden space. The rooftop garden is another trend that is taking homeowners by storm. Get a team in to transform a small rooftop area or balcony into the perfect retreat.If you have a small area outside your back door or in a courtyard off the side of your house, this would be the perfect opportunity to get a veggie garden going. A tiled area would work best for this project as planters will end up damaging grass over a long period of time.An urban garden means you no longer need to pop down to the store to pick up fresh ingredients; simply walk into your back yard and forage away! Whether you live in a luxe home or a simple apartment, there are ways to create the perfect outdoor area. It just requires creativity, some craftiness and a bit of extra cash to get the odds and ends you need.