In a country whose past and present are saturated by violence, the act of calling for violence can seem innocuous - a flatulent rhetorical indulgence.Last weekend, when ANC Youth League president Collen Maine exhorted Umkhonto weSizwe veterans to "bring their guns" and "defend the revolution", his war cry was fairly laughable, given his puny support base.But Maine's words extended a recurring pattern of casual war talk by South African leaders. Munchkins turn politics into TrumpkinsAnother recent culprit was Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema: speaking in an interview on news channel Al-Jazeera, he threatened to remove Zuma "through the barrel of a gun" if his party were violently persecuted.Rhodes University's Jane Duncan, an expert on the freedom of speech in South Africa, doubts that Malema's statement breached the constitution. "He said that if the Zuma administration reacts violently towards them, they will have no option but to take up arms. That's different from saying the EFF is going to take up arms irrespective of the circumstances."As I read him, he was saying that they will meet violence with violence. His threat was qualified, and couched as an act of self-defence, which means that his statements are likely to receive constitutional protection if put to the test."This is not to say that what he said was fine and dandy. It was injudicious in the extreme, and Malema has shown a tendency over and over again to engage in injudicious speech. But injudicious speech is not automatically unlawful or unconstitutional."War talk in South Africa is an old and cyclical phenomenon, emerging during key political battles, Duncan says - but the rise of the EFF has heated the rhetoric."Increasing political competition is leading to political leaders attempting to 'outgun' one another with their mouths. So these cases of war talk are not becoming normalised in our everyday politics, but they are cyclical occurrences related to specific political moments when contestation escalates."</img>Julius Malema s rhetoric is inflaming South African politics . Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI Julius Malema s rhetoric is inflaming South African politics . Image: SIMPHIWE NKWALI Last week, the National Prosecuting Authority said it planned to invoke an apartheid-era law, the Riotous Assemblies Act, to charge Malema for calling for land seizures at campaign rallies this year. His call was not necessarily a call for violence - and Duncan believes the act and its use "will most likely not withstand constitutional scrutiny".Context matters when it comes to violent speech and the law, says Duncan. "An inflammatory speech made in response to an inflammatory situation - and there is much about our current political situation that is inflammatory - is much easier to condone than speech made in a situation that is less inflammatory."So when mourners chanted 'Kill the boer' at Peter Mokaba's funeral, when judged in context, the chant could not be considered hate speech. But in a context where a threat is directed at specific individuals, and there is the opportunity and means to carry out that threat, then exhortations of violence may well not receive constitutional protection."Incitement to certain forms of violence does not receive constitutional protection in two cases: incitement to imminent violence and in the case of hate speech - which requires a three- part test to be classified as such. The failure of the left to build a credible popular democratic project has left the space open for authoritarianism to emerge "While there has been some clarity offered by the courts about how hate speech should be interpreted, very few cases have been heard relating to incitement to imminent violence.One was heard in February and involved Malema's statements against the Guptas, and the judge found that his words did indeed constitute incitement to imminent violence, as there was a reasonable apprehension of harm."Is the war talk show driven by historical amnesia among younger leaders like Malema and Maine? Duncan says the fading memory of the precipice of war is less central than a decline in standards of leadership."There may well be an undervaluing of what it took to get us to this point as a country; that fact that at one point, the country came close to the brink of civil war. But there's some wilful forgetting as well. The recourse to war talk is an indictment of the quality of some of our political leaders at the moment.It's easier to mouth off radical-sounding rhetoric than do the hard work of movement-building. We are in a very unstable moment politically, and unless we approach it with cool heads, the situation could become incendiary. Miracle on campaign trail"We need leaders who recognise that, but we also need citizens who are willing to act against leaders who don't, and recall them in favour of more mature political leaders.Unfortunately, in today's politics, it would seem that charismatic leaders are valued over and above strategic leaders. 'Big man' politics prevail, and this impoverishes the quality of our politics."Richard Pithouse, who teaches politics at Rhodes University, says the imagery of violence is flourishing in South African politics. "There has been an increase in military posturing - in terms of what people say and the general aesthetic of politics - since Zuma's rape trial. It is cause for serious concern and must be vigorously opposed."But the Malema generation is not the only source of this, he says. "I don't think that this is solely a matter of a generational shift. It was, after all, Zuma who introduced a militarised and explicitly masculinist style into our politics. South Africa was forged in blood, and sustained in blood."There was a significant although not total suspension of the mobilisation of violence as a political tool during the Mandela and Mbeki presidencies. However, Zuma began to undo the democratic consensus and others, like Malema, have continued to engage in militaristic posturing," says Pithouse."Demagoguery and post-truth politics are becoming increasingly normalised and are moving towards the centre of our politics. Part of the reason for this is that Zuma's kleptocracy, along with the enduring nature of mass and acutely racialised impoverishment, have weakened respect for democratic values," he says."This is not unique to South Africa. We see something similar in countries like, for instance, India and Russia - and with Trump in the US. Authoritarian forms of populism are on the rise in many parts of the world. The failure of the left to build a credible popular democratic project has left the space open for authoritarianism to emerge," says Pithouse.amatoc@sundaytimes.co.za