We happened upon it by chance. Escaping from the teeming Quais du Polar book festival, and heading for the Old Town, we stumbled on a Saturday morning market on the banks of the River Sa ne.Sharp-elbowed Lyonnaise housewives bumped their wheeled baskets across the cobblestones between the stalls, calling out greetings to the butcher, the baker, the saucisson-maker. Feast your eyes on France's fairytale castlesOne passed by with an armful of cut hyacinths and stopped to interrogate the fishmonger about the provenance of his scallops. The fromag re carefully positioned her cheeses, gibbous crotins and ch vres rubbed with ash, cream cheeses stamped with flowers.She pointed to a row of tiny nubs the size of thimbles. "These ones must be eaten before tonight. No later."At the volailler, or poultry seller, chickens crouched down with their heads turned sideways, their feet clutching their breasts, as if sacrificing themselves. These were poulets de Bresse, identified by their blue feet and red combs, sought after by gourmands and with a hefty price tag: close to R300 a bird.Next to them, a sign on a basket of eggs the colour of condensed milk proclaimed them to be the eggs "of happy chickens in the open air".There were black radishes the size of a schoolboy's thigh, and black potatoes, too; long thin strings of wild asparagus and drifts of m che, soft lamb's lettuce. A country man sat behind an eruption of Arthur Rackham-style mushrooms on his table, the forest dirt still on them, and offered us a taste of his pale, glassy acacia honey.Reluctantly, we left the market behind and headed off over the river to catch the funicular up the hill. Here the Basilica Notre Dame de Fourvi re stands resplendent on the brow, a looming great cake of a building, carved and gilded and crenellated, stamped with exquisite mosaics and stained glass.It is dedicated to the Virgin Mary who, the city fathers believed, saved the city from the Bubonic plague.There she stands, a tall golden figure, looking down over the red roofs of the city. Under arthritic plane trees furred with new growth, we picked out sites of interest in the Haussman-designed neighbourhoods spread out below.The history of Lyon is intriguing, dating from when the Romans built a fort on the hill called Lugdunum and expanded the settlement to become the capital of Gaul. Over the ages it became one of the most important centres in Europe for the spice trade, the silk trade and printing.Merchants and bankers were drawn to its wealth and established a strong economy, but French revolutionaries put paid to all that in the 18th century, laying siege to the city for months and killing thousands of citizens.In 1895, the Lumi re brothers, Auguste and Louis, demonstrated their Cin matographe, the first viable film camera, using footage of the workers at their factory in Lyon. It was, arguably, the first motion picture and there is a museum honoring the brothers and their work housed in the beautiful art nouveau Lumi re family home.</img>Baskets of glistening olives and garlic cloves in the Lyon market. Image: Michele MagwoodBaskets of glistening olives and garlic cloves in the Lyon market. Image: Michele MagwoodIf I'd had another day, I would have visited the museum of the French Resistance. Lyon was known as the capital of the resistance during World War 2, and the museum is housed in the same building the Gestapo used as their headquarters.It was here that the infamous "Butcher of Lyon" Klaus Barbie instigated countless round-ups, executions and deportations to Auschwitz, and where he personally tortured his victims, including the resistance hero Jean Moulin.From the basilica we wound down the steep Rue de L'Antiquaille to the Roman theatre, built in 15BC to hold 10,000 people. So well-built that they still hold events here; workers were erecting scaffolding and billboards for the summer Nuits de Fourvi re festival, hosting dozens of performances, from Radiohead and The Pixies to opera and jazz.Back on the funicular and down to wander the alleys of the Old Town, a World Heritage Site that dates from the Renaissance. There's the Rue Juiverie - Street of the Jews - once home to wealthy merchants and financiers and in the 16th century, the prophet Nostradamus. Catherine de Medici, wife of King Henri II, used to visit him here for readings.The main street is Rue Saint-Jean, dating from the 3rd century and shot through with traboules, narrow passageways that served the resistance as hiding places.Everywhere there are small shops selling local crafts and textiles and hundreds of restaurants, called bouchons, offering typical Lyonnaise dishes: a salad scattered with lardons topped by a soft poached egg; sausages and terrines and an evil dish called andouillete, basically a bag of pig innards said to reek of urine.The book festival lured us back over the river. The Quais du Polar is a gathering of crime writers from all over the world, a fitting festival for the city that is the headquarters of Interpol. Of course, Lyon is not without its social problems.Like Paris, it is ringed by simmering banlieues that periodically erupt in protest. But, for just a few days, it was possible to think only of books, and food, and saints. Magwood was a guest of the French Institute of South Africa and the Quais du Polar Festival