If Ruan Combrinck's explosive entry against Ireland at Ellis Park is put aside, it has been an ordinary year for South Africa's experienced wings.This oversight was not missed by the likes of Raymond Rhule, Sergeal Petersen, Jamba Ulengo, Travis Ismaiel and Lionel Zas in the Currie Cup. It should not come as a surprise if one of these speedy wingers find their way to Europe for the end-of-year tour.Former Springbok assistant coach Dick Muir said he liked what he saw in the young wingers and was happy with the fact they improved other facets of their game. "The beauty of what we saw from these young wingers is that they understood they needed to get involved in the game and that's what they've done. If the ball is not coming to them, they have to go to the ball," Muir said."Raymond has shown that more than most and he's come off the wing and with the rest, their work rates have improved significantly."If there's a better understanding of what the roles of the players are, it'll enhance what they do. The work rate of our wingers has been of serious concern but this is something they have improved." This is something former Springbok wing Khaya Malotana agrees with but he has been impressed by Petersen.The 22-year-old from Humansdorp, Eastern Cape, scored a hat-trick in last week's 55-17 semifinal demolition of the Golden Lions and has proven his worth at Super Rugby level.Malotana said: "Sergeal had an injury layoff and still came back last week and played as well as he did. I would have liked to have seen more tries from Raymond but his work rate has been impressive. That also goes for Jamba, Travis and Lionel. They've been more involved in the setting up of tries and they've been good on defence."On any given day, they could make the Bok squad and I wouldn't be surprised if a name or two is in the squad. Next year's Super Rugby tournament will be a big platform for them as that will be their chance to put up their hands on a bigger stage and they haven't underperformed at that stage." While there may not be deviation from experienced campaigners for the four-match end-of-year tour, Muir said experience can be overrated, especially at wing where some seasoned players disappointed this year.Francois Hougaard, JP Pietersen and Bryan Habana were ordinary for the best part of this year."It's really important we strengthen our game locally so that we don't have to fetch guys from abroad," Muir said."The aspect of experience over potential is being overplayed. We keep saying we need to select experienced players but it's not about that at wing and fullback. There are other positions where you need experience and wing is not one of them."