Solomons first impressed the youngest of the Keeping Up With The Kardashians sisters earlier this year when she was booked to do a campaign shoot for the Kendall &amp; Kylie clothing line."It was inspiring to get to work with such a big name in the industry," Solomons told the Sunday Times this week from her new home in Los Angeles."For the Kylie Cosmetics job I didn't go for an audition. I was booked because I worked with Kendall and Kylie before on their clothing line, so they knew my face."Also social media played a huge role. My face was all over Instagram. Kylie's team showed her and they compared me to a redhead Rihanna."A photo posted by Carmen Lee Solomons (@carmen.solomons) on Oct 11, 2016 at 3:07pm PDT A photo posted by Carmen Lee Solomons (@carmen.solomons) on Oct 11, 2016 at 10:04am PDT The 25-year-old model, who hails from Kraaifontein in Cape Town, moved to the US in January to further her career. Jenner's cosmetic range was launched this month."It has always been my dream to work in the US because I feel this is where opportunity lives. I have received such an amazing response from the industry here," Solomons said.Phira Luon, director of PhotoGenics modelling agency in Los Angeles, said Solomons's "natural charm and charisma" had helped score her the photoshoot with Jenner."Carmen joined us back in August and we were very excited to be representing her. Her first editorial booking was a hip new indie magazine, but her very first beauty booking was Kendall &amp; Kylie Collections," said Luon.Josie Borain: SA s first true supermodel has found herself in her fiftiesSolomons's modelling career began at 16 when she was spotted at a modelling show at a Bellville shopping centre. She was approached by Boss Models director Linda Bruchhausen."She had the most astonishing beauty - like nothing we'd ever seen. We knew that she had a look that could work both in South Africa and internationally," Bruchhausen said."At Boss we very much value looks that are unusual and exceptional, so when we scout someone who has these attributes and is also beautiful, we pretty much know at that point we can help them succeed."Solomons's first campaign was a Virgin Mobile shoot."I had to fly to Johannesburg. I had never flown before so I was extremely nervous, but I was pretty confident in my modelling and posing ability."The whole shoot was centred around me, so I was fully aware that I had to be as professional and efficient as possible. I shot with a very big photographer who had photographed Kate Moss," said Solomons.The shoot opened many doors, and she soon featured in local magazines such as Wanted, Elle and Glamour. She did campaigns for Truworths, Edgars, Esprit and Coty cosmetics.During her first trip to Los Angeles in 2014, Solomons was booked to share a magazine cover (pictured) with Usher to promote his single Good Kisser."It entailed me getting very close to his face - almost kissing," she said.The job opened more door and after receiving a work visa she moved to Los Angeles in January.Since her move to the US, she has also done a spread with Vogue Ukraine and worked on Drake's music video for his song One Dance."Being this side definitely matures you a bit more, the realism of the industry kicked in and I started to realise my goals," she said. "Being established in South Africa had its perks - people knew of me already. Being in the States, I had to start from the bottom again, but I'm grateful for every moment."