The then Blikore's reputation as frocked-up onlookers was further gartered in 1981, 1994, 1997 and 2004.Although trophies were rare, the team from the mid-70s did set a template for the unshackled way Free State teams have subsequently gone about their business.That was until former player and coach Rassie Erasmus dulled the orange brand with a blueprint that was at times mind-numbingly mechanical in its application. Explosive young stars waiting in the wings for Bok chanceIt did, however, serve to end their 29-year Currie Cup trophy drought with victory over their nemesis the Blue Bulls at Loftus in 2005 but Erasmus had altered Free State rugby's moral compass to pragmatic north.While the 2005 triumph was recent enough to occupy memory and perhaps stir the Class of '16, it was the 33-16 win over Western Province in 1976 that resides in their DNA.While barriers of much greater significance were pushed elsewhere around the country, the Free State team of that year pushed frontiers on the field."We showed people that there was more to the local game than just a north-south rivalry," said former Free State and Springbok flank and captain Theuns Stofberg."I think we made a tremendous contribution," said Stofberg about the legacy the team created."I was next to the field," he said of the drubbing the Cheetahs handed the Golden Lions in last weekend's semifinal. The fundamental elements were all too familiar."There is no counter for speed and don't give the ball away. If you don't have the ball you can't score."The Stofberg era resonated with current Free State Cheetahs coach Franco Smith, who doesn't just want to win, but do so with style.Smith is no proponent of style over substance but he believes the team has an obligation not just to put bums on seats but to enthrall.That is exactly what Free State did when they vanquished Western Province 33-16 in Bloemfontein 40 years ago."The match was one big highlight," Stofberg picked up the story. Every guy contributed. We really played as a team and there weren't any stand-out individuals His recollections of the match are a little grainy but he made an early impact. "I tackled Dave Zietsman. He had to leave the field and Divan [Serfontein] came on. Soon after he ran past me and scored in the corner and I thought of what a negative it was to have him on the field."It was a team effort. If you had to give a man of the match award it would have been very difficult."From his vantage point at fullback, Gysie Pienaar could always see the wood for the trees. He arrived at the same conclusion."Every guy contributed. We really played as a team and there weren't any stand-out individuals."I will say, the build-up to Edrich Krantz's try was about three-and-a half, four minutes. There were lots of turnovers and the ball went from side to side before he scored."Pienaar recalled the relief the team felt. "The team had come close before. Even after that final I played in a few more and there are games where you are the better team but you still end up losing. That's finals."The Class of '76 recently had a reunion in Langebaan but sans four of their fallen teammates.Eerily, the missing men deceased in the order of their numbering from loosehead Rampie Stander, Wouter Hugo, Martiens le Roux and most recently Klippies Kritzinger.Ross van Reenen, who travelled with Stofberg to yesterday's final from Cape Town, wore the No5 jersey back then."We joke about it from time to time," said Stofberg. "I don't think it is something he worries about too much. What can you do? If it is your time, it's your time."