You're a trained architect - how did Blank Ink Design come about? I'd like to think Blank Ink started as a natural progression of my passion for design and architecture. However, it had more to do with luck.The first city guide drawing that I did was a birthday gift for my partner. The artwork was popular among our friends and family and I had the idea to turn my hobby into a business.How do you choose your subject matter?I only draw buildings and city guides of cities I've been to. The buildings I choose are generally the first that pop into my head when I think of a city. They should also have architectural merit and significance or historical value. This, however, does not always translate into good architecture.How would you describe your style?Precise.What is your design process?The process for any new product starts with my sketchbook and a pencil. It evolves as I work through iterations of the work to balance the aesthetics of the complete work while being true to the architect who designed the individual building.What is your favourite material and why?Textured paper. I use minimal colour to illustrate my work. Textured paper adds interesting depth. What are you working on?I am working on three exciting projects: I recently launched a range of colourful building illustrations on various mediums at Builders Warehouse. The company proposed the collaboration and has been a huge support in ensuring the products are locally designed and manufactured. The range of merchandise includes scatter cushions, table mats and napkins, limited-edition framed artworks and canvas artworks.I have an exhibition in Paris next month. Along with Museum of African Design, we will be exhibiting illustrations of African architecture. I am also extending my City Guide range. I have completed Paris and I'm busy with Pretoria, Hong Kong and Sydney. The range is being extended to include textiles, which I am launching at the Sanlam Handmade Contemporary Fair from October 14-16.What is a typical work day for you?My day starts at around 5.40 (weather and season dependent). I try to do a yoga or Pilates class before heading to the office. From 8am to 5pm I wear my architecture hat.I am a partner at Osmond Lange Architects. One of the many developments we are working on is a new residential building in Melrose Arch. I like to spend my evenings being as creative as possible, researching, sketching, re-sketching and finalising my work for Blank Ink. What do you enjoy doing when not working?I love walking. My favourite route is around Westcliff and Parkview.Designers that inspire you?I recently came across a very inspiring Cape Town-based interior designer named Etienne Hanekom.What's on your bedside table?'Portrait with Keys' by Ivan Vladislavic and an ink drawing of Braamfontein by Lucie de Moyencourt.A design tip for our readers?The centre of every piece of art in my home is aligned to hang at exactly the same height (eye level) no matter what the size of the work is. - Roberta ThatcherVisit www.blankinkdesign.com