The decision whether to team up with a local firm, go it alone or choose the acquisition route would set the tone for strategic growth, said Innocent Dutiro, MMI's Africa and Southeast Asia CEO.The cost and access to business licences required had deterred efforts by MMI to go into other lines of business, he said.In Nigeria, the regulator had taken the view that new players should enter the market through the acquisition of struggling businesses. This, said Dutiro, "can be costly from a pricing point of view and in terms of the time required to conclude a transaction".Another concern was the implementation of regulations that made it difficult for foreign firms to compete. "In Nigeria, the regulation governing the financial services markets, particularly the insurance and pension fund business, is very strong on paper, [but is] characterised by low levels of compliance by the industry and other stakeholders," said Dutiro.Nigerians are still largely underbanked and underinsured and firms are looking for opportunities to benefit from the low market penetration.This has prompted FirstRand to dedicate more resources in search of growth. FirstRand deputy CEO Alan Pullinger said the bank was planning to venture into commercial banking. "We've been in Nigeria for a while through our investment banking business. That was always going be our stepping stone to get into full commercial banking." Established banks to get a run for their moneyBut in a volatile market such as Nigeria - where political agendas tend to play out closely with economic policy - unpredictability tended to cause shocks and complications to investors trying to negotiate trading terms, said Stephen Cashin, CEO of Pan African Capital Group."Monetary policy should not become a political tool. Non-independent central banks are at risk of becoming political tools, as has been the case in Nigeria and Kenya," he said.Nigeria has seen heavy pressure on its currency. The naira is valued at 314 to the dollar. In 2012, it was valued at about 150.While this has increased pressure on the fiscus, especially with the weak oil price, it has provided investors with an opportunity. "Pricing is much more realistic," said Pullinger. "There have been a lot of currency devaluations in Nigeria. The entry point, from a financial perspective, is a lot more attractive for an investor."Regardless of where a company chose to expand, an important consideration was the interplay among regulatory authorities over sectors such as insurance, banking and telecommunications, said Jonas Mushosho, regional CEO for Southern and East Africa at Old Mutual Emerging Markets.Mobile solutions aimed mostly at the younger population joining formal employment could yield great returns for banks and life assurance businesses. They could be a breakthrough for those banks in the bancassurance business - where lenders include insurance products in their offering.Mushosho added: "As these three industries converge, digital distribution for financial services is becoming increasingly important. Between insurance and banking, regulation around bancassurance is also key as this too is an emerging channel on the continent."