Terence Tracey has an Irish madness. The youngest of 17 children, he has walked a tough road and now owns Scrooge Diner in Joburg and is a devilish adventurer who everyone loves.In 2013, he decided to drive his 1963 Hillman Imp (not great even when new) across the continent - with old mate Geoff Biermann - to an event in Coventry, England, marking the 50th anniversary of the first Imp. As they pulled out of the garage, they realised that it had no reverse gear. "Well, after that I knew there was no way back," Tracey says cheerfully.No Way Back is the title of the book he has written about the month-long journey covering 14,000km, three continents and 19 countries. They had zero punctures, and got to Coventry on time. Remembering the first woman to drive around the worldJethro Bronner, a cool 24-year-old, set out last year in a 1964 Alfa Romeo Giulia Sprint that he had restored. His home is in Dargle, KwaZulu-Natal, and he drove to the River Dargle in Ireland, taking the scenic route.Both the Imp and the Alfa rode the hell roads through Tanzania and Kenya despite dire warnings about bandits on the internet: "Today 11 people from the Weyane-backed Qemant side have been killed in the fight."But in Africa things can change in a second. The Imp's demented whirligig was the Alfa's smooth ride when Bronner tackled the route two years later. The Chinese had fixed up the road in the interim."I thought," says Tracey, "I would hang in Marsabit [northern Kenya] for a while and then travel further along the bandit road towards Moyale. I had no idea what lay ahead of me."He and Biermann had arrived in the rainy season, on possibly the worst road in Africa. Mud and stones grumbled against the underbelly of the car. "The authorities warned me, so did my friends, that in the tiny car I was in the realm of the impossible," says Tracey.They came across a convoy of massive trucks stuck in the mud that had been stranded for nearly a week, plus a 44-seater bus listing to one side, wheels buried in mud. Trucks were being pulled out by bulldozers. The scary part was the Red Cross ambulance delivering food. War zone.Tracey and Biermann hitched the Imp to a Land Cruiser driven by a lunatic who just pulled the little car up and down through mud, over hills, across ruts. "What an absurd sight, my tiny Imp flying through the air while I hung on to the wheel."Tracey says casually, "I only have one eye but I did notice that other cars had armed guards. I tried to take a photograph but a stone was thrown at the camera. Some of the shepherds along the way were carrying rifles."</img>Bronner s Alfa at the foot of a giant baobab near Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. Image: Supplied Bronner s Alfa at the foot of a giant baobab near Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. Image: Supplied Bronner's story is more gentle. "I knew after Nairobi that things where going to change so I kept putting off leaving. I had a sense of unease and dread about what lay ahead of me."He took a more roundabout route than Tracey and Biermann, boning up on history and architecture. His description of Bagamoyo, Tanzania, is enticing: dilapidated coral buildings, elaborately carved doors and a cafe called Poa Poa that served banana splits."In Bagamoyo, women would approach me in the street. It wasn't like once or twice, but a lot. At Poa Poa, there was a waitress who would hit on me most days, she even put her number in my phone. On my last night she asked to come back to my hotel, and when I refused she got really mad. She usually only worked the evening shift so I figured it was safe to return for breakfast before leaving for Arusha."When I left, I passed her in the bar and she gave me a look that could turn a man to stone."A few hours afterwards I got such bad food poisoning that I had to get out of the car and lie in the bushes. My theory is I was poisoned on purpose."</img>Jethro Bronner and his 1964 Alfa Romeo in Israel during the trip to Ireland. Image: Supplied Jethro Bronner and his 1964 Alfa Romeo in Israel during the trip to Ireland. Image: Supplied The worst aspect of travel in Africa are the police stops, the customs officials and the shedloads of documents required to cross borders."[Egypt] required a letter of invitation, a clearance certificate from the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, the carnet for my car, a valid visa, a photocopy of a credit card, hotel bookings, completed forms [including statement of religious belief and church] and no history of travel to Israel," Bronner says.He was frequently stopped by police on his way through Africa. "They did the usual checks: licence, insurance, passport, did I have money for them? They checked the tread on my tyres and whether I had a fire extinguisher, warning triangles, a hi-visibility jacket, and they even checked the washer fluid for the windscreen."Customs was often nerve-wracking. The Egyptians gave Bronner a hard time: "Kept me for about five hours in the sun, took my camera, my clothes, it was almost as if they were making a point, one of the soldiers found my iPod and started screaming, 'What is this?'"Fuel was always a problem. Tracey says: "There were lines of tuk-tuks at each station, waiting for the first delivery of the day, and the petrol was very often of very bad quality.""I did take spares," says Bronner, "but I never broke down." In Maranello, Italy - home of a Ferrari museum - his carburettor needed attention. "I walked down the main street to the first car parts supplier and said, 'Do you have a float for a 1964 Alfa?' And he just took one out from under the counter."Both he and Tracey were impressed by the kindness they encountered in Africa. In the middle of the night, in the middle of a storm, someone would arrive offering food and water. Short of cash in the Sudan where no credit card works, Tracey was handed $300 by a local.It beats travelling SAA by a country mile. 'No Way Back' is available at most bookshops. Read Bronner's blog at: dargletodargle.com.