A friend of mine gave birth six months ago and her tummy is as flat as a chopping board. When I asked her how she got back into shape so quickly, she said she had wrapped a cloth around her midriff and done squats every day.What she said reminded me of what my grandmother and everyone else who's given birth in my family used to say to me after I gave birth to my son, who is now four years old.This technique may have worked for old-school black people back in the day, but they also ate healthier food and walked miles.Slow down to shape up: Exercise will be more chilled in 2016I ate McDonald's but at least joined a gym to keep fit.My friend is from Congo and she did not have a grandmother around to teach her the old ways and tell her about remedies to help lose post-natal body fat, but she remembered things her mother had done, including the tummy wrap.Today we have a new trend called the waist trainer. It's the latest lifestyle piece to get your tummy flat. It is something celebrities swear by.This comes as no surprise because women can be sold anything that makes them believe their body should look a certain way, which is usually according to society's expectations.With different body shapes, such as the lean column, the apple shape, the pear shape and neat hour-glass to full hour-glass, what guarantee do you have that the waist trainer will work for you?Typically, the waist trainer makes a lot of women believe they will have the body shape made popular by Kim and Khloe Kardashian, Kylie Jenner and Amber Rose. Those celebrities have posted innumerable pictures on their Instagram accounts while wearing a waist trainer.Locally we have a regular poster on social media - gym fanatic Sbahle Mpisane (Fitness Bunny). She works out wearing a waist trainer. Pearl Thusi and DJ Zinhle have been spotted wearing them too. A photo posted by Pearl Thusi (@pearlthusi) on Apr 25, 2016 at 10:59pm PDT A photo posted by ZINHLE JIYANE (@djzinhle) on Mar 1, 2016 at 8:48pm PST A photo posted by FitnessBunnie (@sbahle_mpisane) on Sep 27, 2016 at 4:22am PDT I work out too and enjoy intense training, but I know that my body will never be the small waist and big ass shape of certain celebrities.No one ever tells us that we will never look like them because those selling the waist trainers are looking at the quickest way to make cash.For heaven's sake, we're human beings and we have different body shapes and diets. What works for one person will not necessarily work for another.So, where does the waist trainer come from?Waist trainers can be traced back to the days when women used to wear corsets.Corsets date back to the 16th century and were used with stiffened undergarments to give women narrow waists.Today waist trainers are used to modify a woman's figure.Apparently the benefits are that your waist becomes slimmer in a couple of weeks without putting in too much work. But is it really worth it when your lungs and ribs are being squeezed and you're not able to breathe?Another trending remedy to flatten your stomach is Flat Tummy tea. I know many people who drink this, but I have not seen any change in their tummies.Two of my colleagues used to drink it and one said the tea made him constipated while the other said it gave her energy.On Instagram, Flat Tummy tea has more than 36,000 posts under the hashtag #flattummytea while #flattummy has more than 180,000 posts and #flattummywater just over 1,700 posts.Who comes up with these dubious ideas to make women believe they'll look beautiful? What happened to telling women they need to be healthy first to live long and well?