Corn carefully places the meat on the braai, steps back, and cracks open a beer. Bare-chested and fit, he wears only shorts and flip-flops. On his head rests a cowboy hat and on his belt sits a matching Texas buckle, both presents from his brother, a civil engineer living in Texas. A long, thick scar stretches vertically up his tanned, muscular belly."I swallowed a big coin when I was a kid and had to have surgery," he says when I ask."You should have said you were attacked by a lion or something cool like that," I comment."Ja. When I was younger I used to say a k***** sliced me open with a panga. Everyone believed me ... But I'm done lying now."For those Oranians who can't or won't submit to the "no drugs, no alcohol" policy, there is no room at C-block. One afternoon, at the community pool, I meet two such fellows, Corn and Terrence, who have come to enjoy a braai.Corn was recently evicted for violating the no-drinking policy and has just finished moving his belongings to his new home - a rented room on the other side of town.Corn is 28 years old. He moved to Orania from Pretoria three months ago, after being unable to find work "on the outside"."Do you like it here?" I ask him."Ja, but man, it's hard work!" He extends his hands for me to see the calluses on the pads of his fingers.Corn works long hours, six days a week. The sixth day he works for free. The idea is that if he works 20 Saturdays in a year, at the end of the year he gets one month's extra salary. He refers to it as a bonus. Others more economically savvy call it forced savings, or a way for management to retain their workforce until year-end.Terrence, 21, is also from Pretoria. His eyes are red; he appears to have been smoking something other than tobacco. He doesn't say much, just smiles awkwardly when spoken to, whether by Corn or myself. His English is not great, my Afrikaans worse, and with the music blasting from the speakers I give up after a few feeble attempts at having a conversation. It's like his whole being exudes pain, but he can't or won't tell his story It's Saturday evening and the sun is beginning to set on their braai. I ask what people do here for fun. At first they laugh and shake their heads, as if to imply that in Orania there is no such thing, but after a while it turns out there is in fact a pub, called Ommi Draai, and the young men offer to take me there.Having someone to escort me turns out to be a good thing, as there is no way I would have found the place on my own. Stacked away in an unpaved alley behind the grocery store, it is, quite literally, a hole in the wall.The owner is 18-year-old Wayne Wolsen.One week before his birthday he bought the place for R100,000, only the lady who sold it to him didn't really own it. She took off with all the money and he had to purchase the place again from its rightful owner, this time for R80,000.Wayne lost his leg in a car accident as a result of mistreatment by paramedics. His family sued, and Wayne received some money, which he used to buy the local pub (twice), a house in Orania and a car.But now the pub is up for sale as Wayne is heading to Cape Town to study to become a paramedic himself. He wants to do his part to prevent what happened to him from happening to others.Wayne sets me up with the evening's first round of drinks and I return to the table where Corn and Terrence wait thirstily.Over the course of the evening, Corn 's story emerges bit by bit. And it's not pretty. His mom was a crack cocaine addict. Corn started using drugs at the age of six when he stumbled across his mom's stash. From there, life was a series of downward spirals.</img>Children at play during the school holidays in Kleingeluk, Orania, in the Northern Cape. Only those who define and identify themselves as Afrikaners may live there. Image: LAUREN MULLIGANChildren at play during the school holidays in Kleingeluk, Orania, in the Northern Cape. Only those who define and identify themselves as Afrikaners may live there. Image: LAUREN MULLIGANMy eyes are drawn to his lower arms, which are lined with scars. He follows my gaze. "Ja, looks bad. It's from the rage. The rage, man."I look at him quizzically."When the rage comes I just get this feeling ... and I start cutting myself. With glass."Corn 's face tenses up and he gestures violently at his arms as though he's attacking himself right here."My stepmom was abusive. She started abusing me when I was six."He doesn't elaborate on what she did, what type of abuse he means, and I can't bring myself to ask. He's too agitated and there's something desperate about him, a darker spirit that I didn't notice at the pool. Maybe it's the alcohol that brings it out, or maybe it's the subject matter."And, I don't know . . . I just started to cut myself. I'm a little better now. Only happens when I get too drunk. I'll smash a bottle and cut myself up."A few years ago, things were looking up for Corn . He found love and was about to start a family, but then something went horribly wrong. When his girlfriend was seven months pregnant she overdosed, killing herself and the baby."She got spooked. Didn't think she had what it takes to be a mother," Corn says.Devastated, Corn tried to hanghimself, but his brother pulled him down and managed to resuscitate him. Ever since, life has just been one long battle for survival. He is young and he has plenty of time to pull his life together and make something of himself. But somehow I know - without quite being able to explain how - Terrence Pelser will never fly He tells me that he tries his best to have faith in the Lord: "Prayer works, you know. One time my dog got really sick and I was sure I was going to lose him, so I prayed and prayed. I told the Lord I couldn't handle having anything else taken from me. And it worked!" His wide contagious smile rips across his face. "Against all odds, my dog recovered!"Corn 's most treasured possession is an 18th-century King James Bible."You know my favourite part?" he says, leaning forward across the table. Like a pastor building up to the crescendo of his sermon, his eyes are wild with excitement, his finger pointing, as if down from the heavens, into my chest.He emphasises each word: "It says: 'I-have-great-things-in-store-for-you'."He stares at me in blessed illumination, then collapses back into his chair and grabs his beer. "That's my favourite part," he says, and takes a gulp.While Corn tells his story, Terrence sits quietly drinking his beer. He keeps up a much higher drinking pace than the rest of us. Then Corn is challenged to a game of pool and Terrence and I are left alone at the table.Still, he doesn't speak. His English is not great, my Afrikaans worse, and with the music blasting from the speakers I give up after a few feeble attempts at having a conversation. It's like his whole being exudes pain, but he can't or won't tell his story.Once Corn has returned, Terrence finally leans across the table and mumbles something in my direction. I still can't understand him, but Corn has heard."He wants to know if you came here by plane," says Corn ."Yes, Sweden is a long way away," I reply."What is it like?" asks Terrence, this time loud and clear enough for me to hear.He tilts his head back and looks at the ceiling."Up there," he adds."Above the clouds?" I ask.</img>Kajsa Norman's book 'Into the Laager' looks into how Afrikaners on the fringe are dealing with change as SA's ideal of the rainbow nation fades. Image: Kajsa Norman's book 'Into the Laager' looks into how Afrikaners on the fringe are dealing with change as SA's ideal of the rainbow nation fades. Image: He nods."It's nice," I say, and immediately regret my bland description.But he seems satisfied. He nods again and smiles, seemingly pleased. I appear to have confirmed his suspicions that it's better "up there".We sit in silence for a while."Do you have a dream, Terrence?" I finally ask him.He shakes his head."If you could have anything you wanted, anything at all, what would it be?" I insist."A house with a view," he finally replies."A view of what?""Of the sea.""And what would you want to do for a living?"He looks up towards the sky again."Be one of those guys.""A pilot?" I ask.He nods.And that's where it ends. That's all I get out of Terrence: silence and an unattainable dream.He is young and he has plenty of time to pull his life together and make something of himself. But somehow I know - without quite being able to explain how - Terrence Pelser will never fly."Into the Laager: Afrikaners living on the edge", R240, Jonathan Ball Publishers