It is 6.30am. I am standing at the bottom of the steps leading up to the Great Hall at the University of the Witwatersrand.The columns, with their farcical insinuations that education is a Western invention, tower above me. They threaten to overwhelm me on this cold spring morning.I watch a small group of colourful brown bodies singing and dancing around a rubbish bin. At first it looks festive.Fees Must Fall students must not been treated as crazy: MogoengThen there's the revving of a big engine. I look to my left and see a group of calm blue bodies, putting on riot gear and then getting into formation.The big engine is a police Nyala riot vehicle, which the students call a "four-room". I wonder if they call it that because it is hardly smaller than the apartheid matchbox houses in townships."Comrades, the court interdict says it is illegal for us to gather in groups of more than two. Therefore, I suggest you stand in groups of two."The students stand in groups of two. Wasn't there an apartheid law like that? A white- bully blue-body approaches the students. There is such aggression in his body language.I see a student with a big Afro and a yellow T-shirt conferring with the police."Comrades, we have been told that singing is in contravention of this interdict. We have been told that standing next to a dustbin is in contravention of the interdict. Comrades, we are being told that - even in the twos we are standing in now - we are a group because we are standing here waiting for our classes to begin [laughter from the comrades]."The officers are under the impression that because we are wearing these things [he points to the scarf around his neck], we are up to mischief [more laughter]."Comrades, when we are here, ours is not to fight with these police. They are our parents, and we would like to assist them with their work." I see brown bodies scattering. The men in blue are chasing them, shooting them. I have just experienced the sound a stun grenade makes a moment after it hits the ground Behind me, at the top of the stairs, men wearing red jackets and black protective gear, holding riot shields and batons, have quietly gathered and are standing in formation.They appear to be guarding the entrance to the Great Hall, and to classes.Of course the students are up to "mischief" - if mischief is using the same tactics that won us our freedoms from colonialism and apartheid. They want Wits to shut down.Universities across South Africa are in turmoil because the Fees Must Fall movement is demanding free education. 831 arrests mar 2016 Fees Must Fall protestsWhy is a movement rooted in peaceful protest turning to violence?The university's senior management, in their daily updates, consistently fail to mention how police provoke the students with stun grenades, rubber bullets, teargas and, of course, arrest.All this is meant to discredit the validity of the protests and paint the students as hooligans and thugs. It is meant to justify the apartheid-like repression visited on these brown bodies by the police and security forces.It is meant to harden hearts and desensitise the general public to the plight of the poor students; to create an impression that students are being unreasonable - that free education, which would require R70-billion a year to fund, is impossible.In a country that plunged its majority into poverty by design, we are meant to believe those "stakeholders" that benefited greatly from the colonial era and later apartheid - companies that never paid back the money - cannot reach deep into their collective pockets to assist the government in subsidising education.That is absurd. It really is the least they could do.The police get into formation because the students have decided to ignore the interdict and sing and dance.There is a loud bang.I see brown bodies scattering. The men in blue are chasing them, shooting them. I have just experienced the sound a stun grenade makes a moment after it hits the ground, and all my senses feel assaulted.Four students have been caught and arrested. It is quiet. We are all in shock.</img>A policeman keeps an eye on student protesters in Plein Street in Cape Town's CBD on October 26, 2016. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES A policeman keeps an eye on student protesters in Plein Street in Cape Town's CBD on October 26, 2016. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES A woman starts shouting, saying police have no place in an institution of learning. She sounds crazed. You can tell she is very upset.The media, like vultures, swarm her. Some protesters start complaining about the failure of the police to arrest her. "Is it because she's white?" they demand to know.The police are relentless. With the interdict, Adam Habib and senior management have criminalised any form of protest on university property.For the third time, the police confront protesting students with stun grenades and tear gas. I join black academics, staff and alumni to form a protective shield in front, hoping the police will not shoot.In Pictures: Chaos as students, police clash outside ParliamentBut this time the students retaliate. They pick up stones. The crowd is now 2,000 strong.I see a police car speeding past with a broken rear window. Another police car is on its side.Smoke is everywhere and my eyes are burning. My face is hurting from the teargas. Now I understand why many students are wearing scarves.When anyone starts running, we all run. We can't even see where the danger is coming from. Our adrenaline is pumping, the trauma will only register later.By the end of the day I am physically and emotionally exhausted. An academic has had a panic attack. Many people are bleeding, including one policeman. Many protesters have been arrested.The students have gained access to Senate House, which they have renamed Solomon Mahlangu House.Tomorrow they will wake up and do it all over again. And the police will be waiting.At some point, something will break.Simphiwe Dana is a singer and songwriter