This is considered a tour match so officially Lambie is not Springbok captain No 58 as no Test caps are awarded for the game against the famous rugby club.Since August last year Schalk Burger Victor Matfield Jean de Villiers Fourie du Preez and Adriaan Strauss captained the Springboks in Test matches. Strauss was named as Bok captain No 57 earlier this year and has led the team in the nine Tests they have played so far in 2016. But coach Allister Coetzee said that Strauss would be rested for the Barbarians match paving the way for Lambie to lead the side. The talented 26-year-old utility back has played 53 Tests for the Boks and regularly captained the Sharks in Super Rugby. Patrick was always part of the leadership group and part of the spine of the Springbok team said Coetzee. He has excelled as a leader at franchise level and has the respect of his peers. He understands the team culture and has a great understanding of the game and the way we want to play. I have no doubt that he will make a success of his appointment as captain for this match. Adriaan still plays an important role in the squad by giving support to Patrick and also helping [hookers] Bongi Mbonambi and Malcolm Marx with technical detail and he has bought into my succession plan said Coetzee. He understands the bigger picture and he will be back to lead the team again against England at Twickenham next weekend. Strauss said that this tour would be his last for the Boks as he plans to retire from Test rugby at the end of the year. Lambie given his age and experience could become the next Test captain and this is a good dress rehearsal for that possible future role. Lambie who has scored 137 Test points said it was an honour to be appointed as captain of the Springboks. To play for the Springboks is a big honour and the captaincy comes with a huge amount of responsibility Lambie said. South Africa has a proud rugby tradition and the whole squad are excited to represent our country against the Barbarians. Coetzee will name his team for the Barbarians clash on Thursday and it s a clear indication that Lambie will start in his preferred flyhalf position after starting the last two Tests at fullback.- TMG Sport