Until last year, Pemba in the northern Mozambique province of Cabo Delgado was not a place associated with luxury tourism.Now, just outside the village of Mequfi, it boasts a brand new Diamond resort that equals any of the other Diamond resorts across the Indian Ocean.It's a bonus for a town otherwise on hold, waiting for the return of Italian and US investors in offshore gas exploration, probably in 2018 if energy prices improve.Why you should have a gourmet holiday in MozambiqueMeanwhile, the tourists are discovering this remote part of Mozambique, with a direct SA Airlink flight from Johannesburg to Pemba, which opened its new airport two years ago. It will probably take three days to drive there from Johannesburg via Maputo; now it take two hours and 45 minutes to fly."Not much to see in Pemba," the guide assures us as we head straight out of town, which is a bit sad. African towns always have something to see.We leave the tarred road just outside town for a very bumpy and dusty 33km drive through coastal countryside dotted with baobab trees and thatched-house villages to the resort, where the usual cool, wet welcoming towels are, for once, really welcome.The resort is on the beach, with rooms scattered across the dunes and a vast pool-and-restaurant/bar block tucked into a slight hollow. The architecture and d cor are breezy beach-style, drawn from local tradition of thatch roofs and Portuguese colonial influence.The landscape gardening, no easy feat in beach sand, is dramatic. Casuarinas clipped into topiary balls and clipped tufts of Indian vetiver grass line the concrete paths that wind around the resort. The dunes facing the sea still belong to indigenous seaside plants.White walls and cotton mosquito nets on a four-poster bed, grey d cor, blue sky, a bit of green and a lot of golden sand make for the seaside at its best. It's so neat even the sand between the cottages is raked smooth every day.Building the place must have been a logistical headache and stocking it with food and drink a permanent one. Local producers are supported as much as possible, but husband-and-wife chef team Daya Rajuadevi, who whipped up a mean fish curry in minutes when I simply suggested a curry at the buffet lunch table, and Somgit Kunkunthod, who is clearly behind the Thai touches, such as paper spring rolls, depend on just about everything being freighted in, by road or by air. It's not that different to being on an island.Cheese and cold meats may be a problem; seafood is not. Over a three-night stay I ate no meat other than bacon at breakfast.Perhaps most impressive are the staff, locals who, in under a year, were trained in hotel skills and even to speak English. They are a wonderful and tolerant people: one even indulges me by putting the resort's Wi-Fi code into my phone without rolling his eyes.Wi-Fi has become an essential, and there is also TV, but Mequfi is the perfect place to do very little. It offers watersports, including canoeing on the Mangala River, snorkelling in Pemba Bay, cycling and a spa. Eight horses were en route from South Africa while we visited, their stables ready and waiting, so guests can go riding on the beach.</img>Kids in a little village north of Pemba. Image: Andrew Unsworth Kids in a little village north of Pemba. Image: Andrew Unsworth A day trip to the Quirimbas National Park is being planned as a regular option and our group was the first to test it. It's a drive of about 200km, but with interest, be it the slightly manic driving or the beautiful countryside and small villages. Those in remote parts are invariably wattle-and-daub with thatch roofing and small or even no windows. They are usually in neat rows, with little litter about, but then people are poor and have little to litter."Picturesque poverty" is a danger with indigenous dwellings, as most people would probably prefer a concrete block house with an iron roof and to hell with the tourists' photo-ops. That is evident in the larger villages on main roads.Our destination was Base Camp in the reserve. It lies in a verdant valley between two massive granite mountains, each one really a big boulder. These granite outcrops are a feature of northern Mozambique.We had little time to take in the soaring trees in the valley between the sheltering rocks that dwarfed them before setting off on a short hike up a gorge. The trees that lined the path stood with their feet in spring water. Up on a shelf in the granite a few baobabs stood in splendid isolation.The view across the flat countryside was punctuated by more granite domes. We stepped and slipped gingerly down the other side into the valley again, detouring to see the skeleton of an elephant poached just two weeks before.Bones, already stripped of flesh, lay scattered about. It was near the pond where elephants used to come to drink, and may do again one day.</img>Typical granite domes in northern Mozambique. Image: Andrew Unsworth Typical granite domes in northern Mozambique. Image: Andrew Unsworth Over a lunch of sarmies and beer, 70-year-old Jacob von Landsberg, who owns the camp, told us how he had set it up in 1993, "doing conservation, trying to do right what my old people did wrong". Both his grandfather and father had been keen hunters and his Afrikaner family had moved from South Africa to Kenya, where Jacob was born, and then to Tanganyika.After he obtained a tourist licence, tourists came to Base Camp, paying $150 (R2,087) a day. Gas exploration off Pemba brought in more visitors."At one stage it was quite good," he says, "but then the poaching started about four years ago. Real professional poaching, with helicopters, satellite or cellphones, and hunters on the ground. Trackers on the ground could give them a ring and they would be here in hours."In 1993, there were no elephants in the area. After his private reserve was incorporated in the Quirimbas National Park a decade later, numbers rose and peaked at about 120, but a year ago there were none left. Now, he says, a few have returned, even a recently spotted group of 12.Landsberg pauses often and long as he tells his story. He now stays here purely to combat poaching, but hopes tourism will return to fund conservation. With the support of Mequfi, it should, and we drive back to the resort sobered: Mozambique has many mountains to climb. Making the most of Mozambique's MequfiThe next day I opt to skip more driving to snorkel in Pemba Bay and relax in the resort instead.I walk the beach down to the Mangala River mouth, where fishermen cast small nets off the exposed rock shelves. I rush back to my room to fetch my camera when I see a group of children playing in the surf, the older ones digging in the sand for clams.I give them a packet of chocolates and they share them out, but stand in a polite group for a team photo when I ask them to resume playing in the sea.Later, I take a dip myself, the only person on the whole beach. I sit and stare at the surf, wondering when I last did that. I repair to the resort's huge pool, again alone. Someone at once brings me a towel and opens a poolside umbrella; I lie back on a lounger with a cocktail and read The Spectator about things very far away.Just two days and three nights sleeping with doors wide open so I could hear the sea felt like a week. Imagine what a week would do. Unsworth was a guest of Diamond Resort Mequfi.