It's Me, Marah (Jacana) will shock fans with details of the alleged abuse the 64-year-old suffered from lovers whom she names.Louw, who is part of the Mzansi Magic soapie The Queen, said the book wasn't written out of spite, or to shame past lovers."People will probably be shocked because some of the things I detailed in the book I have never shared with anyone in public."I wanted to tell my story, so people can get to know me better and read about my journey. More than anything, it was to heal and get some closure," she said.In one chapter she writes: "He would be loving and caring in the first few months of being back together, then the bug would get him. This time it came with a lot of violence and abuse."One of his girlfriends would call in the middle of the night, and if I answered the phone because it was on my side of the bed, she'd cheekily ask for him. He'd snatch the phone from me and say very little, only 'yes, yes, okay'. The story behind the spiked drink that led to Marah Louw's 'Idols' outburst"Then he would jump out of bed, get dressed and leave."One night he kicked me in the mouth with his expensive Florsheim shoes and broke my front teeth. In the morning I ran home to my parents, and my cousin escorted me to the Orlando police station. I reported him to the police and opened a case of assault."The police promised to go and arrest him. They never did."He later called me, laughing, and said I was wasting my time reporting him because the Orlando police were all his friends and they would never arrest him."I was shattered."During an interview with the Sunday Times this week, Louw cut a different figure from the baggy clothes, doeks and Afro wigs she was known for on Idols SA and now on The Queen.Wearing an animal-print dress that showed off her figure, and with perfect makeup despite the heat, she arrived full of smiles."It's the hip replacement, my darling," she said. "For three years I struggled with this hip, gained weight, was unable to walk without a walking stick or even wear heels. But last year I took care of it and I have gained my life back."Louw recalls "my ultimate career in music" which began in 1973 when she joined the musical Meropa. The show, created by playwright Clarence Wilson and Victor Ntoni, led to her touring Europe, Asia and Africa.On her return to South Africa, she pursued a solo career that led to her winning awards and singing for politicians, including Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.Louw performed at the Mandela Concert at Wembley Stadium, London, in 1990, and soon after at the National Press Club's Newsmaker of the Year awards for Mandela and FW de Klerk.She also accompanied Mandela on his visit to Glasgow in 1993 and performed at his presidential inauguration, at his request. Her relationship with Mandela and other politicians had gained her "lots of enemies in the industry", she said."I was professional, reliable and I worked hard to keep myself and my career going, to a point that politicians would personally request me for their events, [such as when] the Sisulu family asked me to perform at Walter Sisulu's funeral because they said it was his wish."In 1997 Louw joined the Venda soapie Muvhango, where she played Catherine Mukwevho until 2007.</img>In her last year as a judge in 2010, Louw faced controversy when she appeared drowsy and intoxicated during a live show. Image: VELI NHLAPO In her last year as a judge in 2010, Louw faced controversy when she appeared drowsy and intoxicated during a live show. Image: VELI NHLAPO In 2003 she joined the judging panel of Idols SA, which was then in its second season.In her book she reveals details of death threats and unfair treatment, and explains the story about her cursing during the show where she was reportedly "drunk"."I could never win with the audience. When I commented negatively on a white contestant, they'd call me racist; then the black audience members sometimes would approach me and tell me how they disapproved of me making positive comments about white contestants," she said."Once I even had a contestant's family member send me a death threat."In her last year as a judge in 2010, Louw faced controversy when she appeared drowsy and intoxicated during a live show. She was also heard saying the F-word."That was a terrible time for me. The whole thing tarnished my reputation in the church."I later learnt from one of the contestants and a production member that the drink I was given by one of my colleagues was laced with vodka."You'll be shocked at what lengths people will go to get you fired in this industry when they want to put in their friends," said Louw.It's Me, Marah (Jacana) will be out in February. To order, email orders@onthedot.co.za or call 021-918-8810.