Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump probably thought remarks made to a priest in private would remain just that.But Cardinal Timothy Dolan, the archbishop of New York, proved to be a rather indiscreet confessor.Within hours of speaking to the two presidential nominees backstage at a charity dinner, the archbishop let slip one of the most shocking stories of the campaign - that the bitter rivals had been "nice" to each other, and even said a prayer together. Munchkins turn politics into Trumpkins"There were some very touching moments," Dolan said. "When we were going in I said 'Can we pray together?' as we were waiting to be announced."After the little prayer Mr Trump turned to Mrs Clinton and said: 'You know, you are one tough and talented woman.' Then he said: 'This has been a good experience, this whole campaign, as tough as it's been.'"Mrs Clinton responded: 'Donald, whatever happens, we need to work together afterwards.'"Dolan said he was "very moved by this obvious attempt to be courteous, to get along, to say nice things privately to one another". The pair even shook hands, which they had refused to do at the final presidential debate earlier this week.The brief thaw in relations, during the ugliest presidential campaign in memory, happened at the Alfred E Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner in New York, which raised $6-million (about R84-million) for Catholic charities supporting children. It is traditionally the last time the two nominees share a stage before the election, each making a humorous speech.During the public dinner hostilities were resumed and Dolan called his seat between the two candidates the "iciest place on Earth".Several of Trump's jokes turned sour and he was booed. What concerns me most is his vindictive streak. It could be so dangerous if he got into the White House He accused Clinton of being "so corrupt she got kicked off the Watergate Commission" and of "pretending not to hate Catholics". This was an allusion to hacked correspondence from Clinton aides that appeared to criticise Roman Catholic conservatism.Clinton said: "Donald looks at the Statue of Liberty and sees a '4'. Maybe a '5' if she changes her hair."The encounter came as Richard Branson joined the chorus of condemnation against Trump, revealing details of a "bizarre and disturbing" meeting some years ago. Branson said the billionaire was angry about five people who had refused to help him after a bankruptcy, and had vowed to "spend the rest of his life destroying them".The Virgin founder said: "What concerns me most is his vindictive streak. It could be so dangerous if he got into the White House."Polls show Clinton now a hot favourite to win. Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia Center for Politics, predicted she would get more than 350 votes in the presidential electoral college. A candidate needs only 270 to win.- The Daily Telegraph